
Financial Statements and Supplemental Details
We have defined certain terms and abbreviations used throughout our Form 10-K in "Key Terms" within this section.
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements	Page
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm	
(PCAOB ID: 42)
54
Consolidated Statements of Operations
57
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
58
Consolidated Balance Sheets	
59
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows	
60
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity	
61
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements	
62
Basis	
Note 1: Basis of Presentation	
62
Note 2: Accounting Policies	
62
Performance and Operations	
Note 3: Operating Segments	
68
Note 4: Non-Controlling Interests	
72
Note 5: Earnings (Loss) Per Share	
74
Note 6: Other Financial Statement Details	
74
Note 7: Restructuring and Other Charges	
77
Note 8: Income Taxes	
78
Investments, Long-Term Assets, and Debt	
Note 9: Investments	
81
Note 10: Acquisitions and Divestitures	
82
Note 11: Goodwill	
83
Note 12: Identified Intangible Assets	
84
Note 13: Borrowings	
84
Note 14: Fair Value	
87
Risk Management and Other	
Note 15: Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)	
88
Note 16: Derivative Financial Instruments	
88
Note 17: Retirement Benefit Plans	
91
Note 18: Employee Equity Incentive Plans	
94
Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies	
96
Key Terms	
100
Index to Supplemental Details	
Controls and Procedures	
102
Exhibits	
103
Form 10-K Cross-Reference Index	
108
 
intel-logo-footer.jpg
53
 
Table of Contents

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm	
 
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Intel Corporation
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Intel Corporation (the Company) as of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), cash flows and stockholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2024, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated January 31, 2025 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
intel-logo-footer.jpg
Auditor's Reports	
54
 
Table of Contents

Inventory Valuation
Description of the Matter		
The Company's net inventory totaled $12.2 billion as of December 28, 2024, representing 6.2% of total assets. As explained in "Note 2: Accounting Policies" within the consolidated financial statements, the Company computes inventory cost on a first-in, first-out basis, and applies judgment in determining saleability of products and the valuation of inventories. The Company assesses inventory at each reporting date in order to assert that it is recorded at net realizable value, giving consideration to, among other factors: whether the products have achieved the substantive engineering milestones to qualify for sale to customers; the determination of normal capacity levels in its manufacturing process to determine which manufacturing overhead costs can be included in the valuation of inventory; whether the product is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value; and the estimation of excess and obsolete inventory or that which is not of saleable quality.
Auditing management's assessment of net realizable value for inventory was challenging because the determination of excess and obsolete inventory reserves and lower of cost or net realizable value is judgmental and considers a number of factors that are affected by market and economic conditions, such as customer forecasts, dynamic pricing environments, and industry supply and demand. Additionally, for certain new product launches there is limited historical data with which to evaluate forecasts.
How We Addressed
the Matter in Our Audit		
We evaluated the design and tested operating effectiveness of the Company's internal controls over the costing of inventory, the determination of whether inventory is of saleable quality, the determination of demand forecasts and related application against on hand inventory, and the calculation of lower of cost or net realizable value reserves including related estimated costs and selling prices.
Our audit procedures included, among others, testing the significant assumptions (e.g., estimated product demand forecasts, costs and selling prices) of the underlying data used in management's inventory valuation assessment. We compared the significant assumptions used by management to current industry and economic trends. We assessed whether there were any potential sources of contrary information, including historical forecast accuracy or history of significant revisions to previously recorded inventory valuation adjustments, and performed sensitivity analyses over significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in inventory valuation that would result from changes in the assumptions.
Goodwill Impairment Assessment – Mobileye Reporting Unit
Description of the Matter
At December 28, 2024, the balance of the Company’s goodwill was $24.7 billion. The goodwill attributed to the Mobileye reporting unit was $8.3 billion and represented 4.2% of total assets. As discussed in “Note 2: Accounting Policies” within the consolidated financial statements, goodwill is assessed at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist. The assessment may include both qualitative and quantitative evaluations. If it is determined, based on the qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed. As discussed in “Note 11: Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements, the Company identified certain impairment indicators in the three months ended September 28, 2024 that required an interim goodwill impairment test. As a result of this assessment, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $2.6 billion related to the Mobileye reporting unit.
Auditing the Company’s Mobileye goodwill impairment evaluation was complex and judgmental due to the significant estimation required in determining the fair value using the income approach. Determining fair value involved assumptions with forward-looking elements that can be affected by future economic and market conditions. In particular, the fair value estimate was sensitive to significant assumptions such as revenue terminal growth rate and the weighted average cost of capital.
How We Addressed
the Matter in Our Audit

We evaluated the design and tested operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over the Mobileye reporting unit goodwill impairment review process, including controls over management’s review of the valuation model and the significant assumptions mentioned above.
Our audit procedures included, among others, assessing the suitability and application of the valuation methodology and evaluating the significant assumptions (e.g., revenue terminal growth rate and the weighted average cost of capital) and the underlying data used by the Company in its analysis. We compared the significant assumptions used by management to current industry and economic trends, market information, and other relevant factors. We performed sensitivity analyses of significant assumptions to determine what changes in assumptions are particularly sensitive when assessing the likelihood of impairment, or when calculating the amount of the impairment. We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates. In addition, we involved a valuation specialist to assist in the evaluation of the methodology used by the Company and certain significant assumptions.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP     
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1968.
San Jose, California
January 31, 2025

intel-logo-footer.jpg
Auditor's Reports	
55
 
Table of Contents

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm	
 
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Intel Corporation
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Intel Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Intel Corporation (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2024, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2024 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated January 31, 2025 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP                      
San Jose, California
January 31, 2025
intel-logo-footer.jpg
Auditor's Reports	
56
 
Table of Contents


Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Years Ended (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Net revenue		$	53,101 			$	54,228 			$	63,054 	
Cost of sales		35,756 			32,517 			36,188 	
Gross margin		17,345 			21,711 			26,866 	
Research and development		16,546 			16,046 			17,528 	
Marketing, general, and administrative
5,507 			5,634 			7,002 	
Restructuring and other charges		6,970 			(62)			2 	
Operating expenses		29,023 			21,618 			24,532 	
Operating income (loss)		(11,678)			93 			2,334 	
Gains (losses) on equity investments, net		242 			40 			4,268 	
Interest and other, net		226 			629 			1,166 	
Income (loss) before taxes		(11,210)			762 			7,768 	
Provision for (benefit from) taxes		8,023 			(913)			(249)	
Net income (loss)		(19,233)			1,675 			8,017 	
Less: net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests		(477)			(14)			3 	
Net income (loss) attributable to Intel		$	(18,756)			$	1,689 			$	8,014 	
Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Intel—basic		$	(4.38)			$	0.40 			$	1.95 	
Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Intel—diluted		$	(4.38)			$	0.40 			$	1.94 	
Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding:						
Basic		4,280 			4,190 			4,108 	
Diluted		4,280 			4,212 			4,123 	
 
See accompanying notes.

 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Consolidated Statements of Operations
57
 
Table of Contents

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Net income (loss)		$	(19,233)			$	1,675 			$	8,017 	
Changes in other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:						
Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives		(555)			272 			(510)	
Actuarial valuation and other pension benefits (expenses), net		60 			66 			855 	
Translation adjustments and other		(1)			9 			(27)	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		(496)			347 			318 	
Total comprehensive income (loss)		(19,729)			2,022 			8,335 	
Less: comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests		(477)			(14)			3 	
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Intel		$	(19,252)			$	2,036 			$	8,332 	
 
See accompanying notes.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
58
 
Table of Contents

Consolidated Balance Sheets	
 
(In Millions, Except Par Value)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Assets				
Current assets:				
Cash and cash equivalents		$	8,249 			$	7,079 	
Short-term investments		13,813 			17,955 	
Accounts receivable, net		3,478 			3,402 	
Inventories		12,198 			11,127 	
Other current assets		9,586 			3,706 	
Total current assets		47,324 			43,269 	
Property, plant, and equipment, net
107,919 			96,647 	
Equity investments		5,383 			5,829 	
Goodwill		24,693 			27,591 	
Identified intangible assets, net		3,691 			4,589 	
Other long-term assets		7,475 			13,647 	
Total assets		$	196,485 			$	191,572 	
Liabilities and stockholders' equity				
Current liabilities:				
Accounts payable		$	12,556 			$	8,578 	
Accrued compensation and benefits		3,343 			3,655 	
Short-term debt		3,729 			2,288 	
Income taxes payable		1,756 			1,107 	
Other accrued liabilities		14,282 			12,425 	
Total current liabilities		35,666 			28,053 	
Debt		46,282 			46,978 	
Other long-term liabilities		9,505 			6,576 	
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 19)				
Stockholders' equity:				
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 50 shares authorized; none issued		— 			— 	
Common stock, $0.001 par value, 10,000 shares authorized; 4,330 shares issued and outstanding (4,228 issued and outstanding in 2023) and capital in excess of par value		50,949 			36,649 	
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)		(711)			(215)	
Retained earnings		49,032 			69,156 	
Total Intel stockholders' equity		99,270 			105,590 	
Non-controlling interests		5,762 			4,375 	
Total stockholders' equity		105,032 			109,965 	
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity		$	196,485 			$	191,572 	
 
See accompanying notes.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	Consolidated Balance Sheets	
59
 
Table of Contents

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows	
 
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period		$	7,079 			$	11,144 			$	4,827 	
Cash flows provided by (used for) operating activities:						
Net income (loss)		(19,233)			1,675 			8,017 	
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:						
Depreciation		9,951 			7,847 			11,128 	
Share-based compensation		3,410 			3,229 			3,128 	
Restructuring and other charges		3,491 			(424)			1,074 	
Amortization of intangibles		1,428 			1,755 			1,907 	
(Gains) losses on equity investments, net		(246)			(42)			(4,254)	
(Gains) losses on divestitures		— 			— 			(1,059)	
Deferred taxes		6,132 			(2,033)			(5,148)	
Impairments and net (gain) loss on retirement of property, plant, and equipment		2,252 			33 			301 	
Changes in assets and liabilities:						
Accounts receivable		(75)			731 			5,327 	
Inventories		(1,105)			2,097 			(2,436)	
Accounts payable		634 			(801)			(29)	
Accrued compensation and benefits		(218)			(614)			(1,533)	
Income taxes		(356)			(1,498)			613 	
Other assets and liabilities		2,223 			(484)			(1,603)	
Total adjustments		27,521 			9,796 			7,416 	
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities		8,288 			11,471 			15,433 	
Cash flows provided by (used for) investing activities:						
Additions to property, plant, and equipment		(23,944)			(25,750)			(24,844)	
Proceeds from capital-related government incentives		1,936 			1,011 			246 	
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired		(82)			(13)			(681)	
Purchases of short-term investments		(37,940)			(44,414)			(43,647)	
Maturities and sales of short-term investments		41,463 			44,077 			48,730 	
Sales of equity investments		1,047 			472 			4,961 	
Proceeds from divestitures		— 			— 			6,579 	
Other investing		(736)			576 			(1,575)	
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities		(18,256)			(24,041)			(10,231)	
Cash flows provided by (used for) financing activities:						
Issuance of commercial paper, net of issuance costs		7,349 			— 			3,945 	
Repayment of commercial paper		(7,349)			(3,944)			— 	
Partner contributions		12,714 			1,511 			874 	
Proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares		— 			2,959 			1,032 	
Additions to property, plant, and equipment		(1,178)			— 			— 	
Issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs		2,975 			11,391 			6,548 	
Repayment of debt		(2,288)			(423)			(4,984)	
Proceeds from sales of common stock through employee equity incentive plans		987 			1,042 			977 	
Restricted stock unit withholdings		(631)			(534)			(486)	
Payment of dividends to stockholders		(1,599)			(3,088)			(5,997)	
Other financing		158 			(409)			(794)	
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities		11,138 			8,505 			1,115 	
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents		1,170 			(4,065)			6,317 	
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period		$	8,249 			$	7,079 			$	11,144 	
Non-cash supplemental disclosures:						
Acquisition of property, plant, and equipment		$	8,125 			$	4,804 			$	5,431 	
Cash paid during the year for:						
Interest, net of capitalized interest		$	987 			$	613 			$	459 	
Income taxes, net of refunds		$	2,202 			$	2,621 			$	4,282 	
 See accompanying notes.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows	
60
 
Table of Contents

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity	
 
Common Stock and Capital
in Excess of Par Value		Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)		Retained
Earnings		Non-Controlling Interests		Total
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)		Number of
Shares		Amount	
Balance as of December 25, 2021		4,070 			$	28,006 			$	(880)			$	68,265 			$	— 			$	95,391 	
Net income (loss)		— 			—		 —		8,014 			3 			8,017 	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		— 			—		318 			—		— 			318 	
Proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares
and partner contributions		—		75 			—		—		1,831 			1,906 	
Employee equity incentive plans and other		79 			1,009 			 —		—		— 			1,009 	
Share-based compensation		—		3,099 			—		—		29 			3,128 	
Restricted stock unit withholdings		(12)			(609)			 —		123 			— 			(486)	
Cash dividends declared ($1.46 per share of common stock)
—		—		 —		(5,997)			— 			(5,997)	
Balance as of December 31, 2022		4,137 			$	31,580 			$	(562)			$	70,405 			$	1,863 			$	103,286 	
Net income (loss)		—		—		 —		1,689 			(14)			1,675 	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		—		—		347 			—		— 			347 	
Proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares
and partner contributions		—		1,620 			—		—		2,385 			4,005 	
Employee equity incentive plans and other		107 			1,044 			 —		—		— 			1,044 	
Share-based compensation		—		3,088 			 —		—		141 			3,229 	
Restricted stock unit withholdings		(16)			(683)			 —		150 			— 			(533)	
Cash dividends declared ($0.74 per share of common stock)
—		—		 —		(3,088)			— 			(3,088)	
Balance as of December 30, 2023		4,228 			$	36,649 			$	(215)			$	69,156 			$	4,375 			$	109,965 	
Net income (loss)		— 			— 			— 			(18,756)			(477)			(19,233)	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		— 			— 			(496)			— 			— 			(496)	
Net proceeds from partner contributions		— 			11,012 			— 			— 			1,702 			12,714 	
Partner distributions
— 			— 			— 			— 			(43)			(43)	
Employee equity incentive plans and other		123 			988 			— 			— 			— 			988 	
Share-based compensation		— 			3,162 			— 			— 			205 			3,367 	
Restricted stock unit withholdings		(21)			(862)			— 			231 			— 			(631)	
Cash dividends declared ($0.38 per share of common stock)
— 			— 			— 			(1,599)			— 			(1,599)	
Balance as of December 28, 2024		4,330 			$	50,949 			$	(711)			$	49,032 			$	5,762 			$	105,032 	
 
See accompanying notes.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity	
61
 
Table of Contents

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Note 1 :	Basis of Presentation
 
We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in December. Fiscal years 2024 and 2023 were 52-week fiscal years; 2022 was a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal 2025 is a 52-week fiscal year. Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Intel and our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, which include entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting interest models. We have eliminated intercompany accounts and transactions.
We made certain reclassifications within our Consolidated Financial Statements during 2024, and, in certain cases, adjusted prior periods to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net income (loss), cash flows, or stockholders' equity.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with US GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. The actual results that we experience may differ materially from our estimates.
Effective January 2023, we increased the estimated useful life of certain production machinery and equipment from 5 to 8 years. When compared to the estimated useful life in place as of the end of 2022, we estimated this change increased gross margin in 2023 by approximately $2.5 billion and decreased R&D expense by approximately $400 million. As of December 30, 2023, we estimated this change decreased ending inventory values by approximately $1.3 billion. These estimates were based on the assets in use and under construction as of the beginning of 2023 and were calculated at that point in time.
Note 2 :	Accounting Policies
 
Revenue Recognition
We recognize net product revenue when we satisfy performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products or services to customers. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from product sales. Our products often include a software component, such as firmware, that is highly interdependent and interrelated with the product and is substantially accounted for as a combined performance obligation. In accordance with contract terms, the revenue for combined performance obligations and standalone product sales is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities or delivery to the customer location, as determined by the agreed-upon shipping terms.
We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products or services. Variable consideration is estimated and reflected as an adjustment to the transaction price. We determine variable consideration, which consists primarily of various sales price concessions, by estimating the most likely amount of consideration we expect to receive from the customer based on historical analysis of customer purchase volumes. Sales rebates earned by customers are offset against their receivable balances. Rebates earned by customers when they do not have outstanding receivable balances are recorded within other accrued liabilities.
We make payments to our customers through cooperative advertising programs for marketing activities for some of our products. We generally record the payment as a reduction in revenue in the period that the revenue is earned, unless the payment is for a distinct service, which we record as an expense when the marketing activities occur.
Long-Lived Assets
Property, Plant, and Equipment
We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of assets. We also capitalize interest on borrowings related to eligible capital expenditures. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of qualified assets and depreciated over the estimated useful life.
At least annually, we evaluate the period over which we expect to recover the economic value of our property, plant, and equipment, considering factors such as the process technology cadence between node transitions, changes in machinery and equipment technology, and re-use of machinery and tools across each generation of process technology. As we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we use assumptions involving the use of management judgments regarding the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific semiconductor manufacturing tools and building improvements. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter or longer than we had originally estimated, we adjust the rate of depreciation to reflect the assets' revised useful lives. Effective January 2023, the estimated useful lives of certain machinery and equipment in our wafer fabrication facilities were increased from 5 to 8 years. This change in estimate was applied prospectively beginning in the first quarter of 2023.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
62
 
Table of Contents

Assets are categorized and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a business or product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in our use and fungibility of the assets. If the carrying value of an asset grouping is not recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired.
Identified Intangible Assets
We amortize acquisition-related intangible assets that are subject to amortization over their estimated useful lives. We perform periodic reviews of significant finite-lived identified intangible assets to determine whether facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. These reviews can be affected by various factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our forecasts for specific product lines. Periodically, we also evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization. We may adjust the period over which these assets are amortized to reflect the period over which they are expected to contribute to our cash flows.
Goodwill
Our reporting units substantially align with our operating segments. We reevaluate our identified reporting units annually or when triggered, such as upon reorganization of our operating segments. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist. The reporting unit's carrying value used in an impairment assessment represents the assignment of various assets and liabilities, excluding certain corporate assets and liabilities, such as cash, investments, and debt. The impairment assessment may include both qualitative and quantitative factors to assess the likelihood of an impairment.
Qualitative factors used include industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. We may also perform a quantitative analysis to support the qualitative factors by applying sensitivities to assumptions and inputs used in measuring a reporting unit's fair value.
Our quantitative impairment assessment considers both the income approach and the market approach to estimate a reporting unit's fair value. Significant estimates include market segment growth rates, our assumed market segment share, estimated gross margins, operating expenses, and discount rates based on a reporting unit's weighted average cost of capital. We test the reasonableness of the inputs and outcomes of our discounted cash flow analysis against available market data. These estimates change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors and could materially affect the determination of the fair value and potential goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Our quantitative assessment is sensitive to changes in underlying estimates and assumptions, the most sensitive of which is the discount rate.
Inventories
We compute inventory cost on a first-in, first-out basis. Our process and product development life cycle corresponds with substantive engineering milestones. These engineering milestones are regularly and consistently applied in assessing the point at which our activities and associated costs change in nature from R&D to cost of sales, and when cost of sales can be capitalized as inventory.
For a product to be manufactured in high volumes and sold to our customers under our standard warranty, it must meet our rigorous technical quality specifications. We have identified the start of manufacturing volume for sale to customers as the point at which the costs incurred to manufacture our products are included in the valuation of inventory. Prior to the start of manufacturing volume for sale to customers, costs that do not meet the criteria for R&D are included in cost of sales in the period incurred.
The valuation of inventory includes determining which fixed production overhead costs can be included in inventory based on the normal capacity of our manufacturing and assembly and test facilities. We apply our historical loading compared to our total available capacity to determine our expectations of normal capacity level. If the factory loading is below the established normal capacity level, a portion of our fixed production overhead costs would not be included in the cost of inventory; instead, it would be recognized as cost of sales in that period. We refer to these costs as excess capacity charges. Excess capacity charges were $174 million in 2024, $834 million in 2023, and $423 million in 2022.
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of our customer base, the stage of the product life cycle, variations in market pricing, and an assessment of selling price in relation to product cost. Lower of cost or net realizable value inventory reserves fluctuate as we ramp new process technologies, with costs generally improving over time due to scale and improved yields. Additionally, inventory valuation is impacted by cyclical changes in market conditions and the associated pricing environment.
The valuation of inventory also requires us to estimate obsolete and excess inventory, as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We use a demand forecast to develop our short-term manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory valuations and build decisions. For certain new products, we have limited historical data when developing these demand forecasts. We compare the estimate of future demand to work-in-process and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess inventory. When our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we write off amounts considered to be excess inventory.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
63
 
Table of Contents

Government Incentives
Government incentives, including cash grants and refundable tax credits, are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the incentive will be received and we will comply with the conditions specified in the agreement or statutory requirements. We record capital-related incentives as a reduction to property, plant, and equipment, net within our Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognize a reduction to depreciation expense over the useful life of the corresponding acquired asset. We record operating-related incentives as a reduction to expense in the same line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations as the expenditure for which the incentive is intended to compensate.
Fair Value
When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, as well as assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. Our financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, except for equity securities measured using the measurement alternative, equity method investments, certain other receivables, and grants receivable. We assess fair value hierarchy levels for our issued debt and fixed-income investment portfolio based on the underlying instrument type.
The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are:
▪Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. We evaluate security-specific market data when determining whether a market is active.
▪Level 2. Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in less active markets, or model-derived valuations. All significant inputs used in our valuations, such as discounted cash flows, are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. We use yield curves, overnight indexed swap curves, currency spot and forward rates, and credit ratings as significant inputs in our valuations. Level 2 inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices, as well as quoted prices that were adjusted for security-specific restrictions. When we use non-binding market consensus prices, we corroborate them with quoted market prices for similar instruments or compare them to output from internally developed pricing models such as discounted cash flow models.
▪Level 3. Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities. We monitor and review the inputs and results of these valuation models to help confirm that the fair value measurements are reasonable and consistent with market experience in similar asset and liability classes. Level 3 inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices, non-binding broker quotes, and probability-weighted outcomes that we are unable to corroborate with observable market data.
Equity Investments
We regularly invest in equity securities of public and private companies to promote business and strategic objectives. Equity investments are measured and recorded as follows:
▪Marketable equity investments are equity securities with RDFV that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis with changes in fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recorded through the income statement.
▪Non-marketable equity investments are equity securities without RDFV that are measured and recorded using a measurement alternative that measures the securities at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes.
▪Equity method investments are equity securities in investees we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence. Equity method investments are measured at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus our share of equity method investee income or loss.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value or the sale of our equity investments are recorded in gains (losses) on equity investments, net. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments is adjusted for qualifying observable price changes resulting from the issuance of similar or identical securities in an orderly transaction by the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and preferences of the securities.
Non-marketable equity investments and equity method investments (collectively referred to as non-marketable equity investments) are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our non-marketable equity investments using both the market and income approaches.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
64
 
Table of Contents

▪Non-marketable equity investments are tested for impairment using a qualitative model similar to the model used for goodwill and property, plant, and equipment. Upon determining that an impairment may exist, the security's fair value is calculated and compared to its carrying value, and an impairment is recognized immediately if the carrying value exceeds the fair value.
▪Equity method investments are subject to periodic impairment reviews using the other-than-temporary impairment model, which considers the severity and duration of a decline in fair value below cost and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery.
Impairments of non-marketable equity investments are recorded in gains (losses) on equity investments, net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Our primary objective for holding derivative financial instruments is to manage currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, and, to a lesser extent, equity market risk, commodity price risk, and credit risk. We enter into master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. We also enter into collateral security arrangements with certain of our counterparties to exchange cash collateral when the net fair value of certain derivative instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. For presentation on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, we do not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. Our derivative financial instruments, including related collateral amounts, are presented at fair value on a gross basis and are included in other current assets, other long-term assets, other accrued liabilities, or other long-term liabilities.
Cash flow hedges use foreign currency contracts, such as currency forwards and currency swaps, to hedge exposures for variability in the US-dollar equivalent of non-US-dollar-denominated cash flows associated with our forecasted operating and capital purchases spending.
The after-tax gains or losses from the effective portion of a cash flow hedge are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and in the same line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations as the impact of the hedge transaction. For foreign currency contracts hedging our capital purchases, forward points are excluded from the hedge effectiveness assessment, and are recognized in earnings in the same income statement line item used to present the earnings effect of the hedged item. If the cash flow hedge transactions become improbable, the corresponding amounts deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) would be immediately reclassified to interest and other, net. Cash flows associated with these derivatives are classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same section as the underlying item.
Fair value hedges use interest rate contracts, such as interest rate swaps, to hedge against changes in the fair value on certain of our fixed-rate indebtedness attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The gains or losses on these hedges, as well as the offsetting losses or gains related to the changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in earnings in the current period, primarily in interest and other, net. Cash flows associated with these derivatives are classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same section as the underlying item, primarily within net cash provided by (used for) financing activities.
Non-designated hedges use foreign currency contracts to economically hedge the functional currency equivalent cash flows of recognized monetary assets and liabilities, and non-US-dollar-denominated debt instruments classified as hedged investments. We also use interest rate contracts to hedge interest rate risk related to our US-dollar-denominated fixed-rate debt investments classified as hedged investments. The change in fair value of non-designated derivatives is recorded through earnings in the line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations to which the derivatives most closely relate, primarily in interest and other, net. Changes in the fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities associated with the hedged risk are generally offset by the changes in the fair value of the related derivatives.
Debt Investments
Debt investments include investments in corporate debt, government debt, and financial institution instruments. Unhedged debt investments with original maturities of approximately three months or less from the date of purchase are classified within cash and cash equivalents. Unhedged debt investments with original maturities at the date of purchase greater than approximately three months and all economically hedged debt investments are classified as short-term investments, as they represent the investment of cash available for current operations.
For certain of our marketable debt investments, we economically hedge market risks at inception with a related derivative instrument, or the marketable debt investment itself is used to economically hedge currency exchange rate risk from remeasurement. These hedged investments are reported at fair value. Gains or losses on these investments arising from changes in fair value due to interest rate and currency market fluctuations and credit market volatility, largely offset by losses or gains on the related derivative instruments and balance sheet remeasurement, are recorded in interest and other, net. Our remaining unhedged marketable debt investments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We determine the cost of the investment sold at the individual security level and record the interest income and realized gains or losses on the sale of these investments in interest and other, net.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
65
 
Table of Contents

Unhedged debt investments are subject to periodic impairment reviews. For investments in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a credit loss exists by considering information about the collectability of the instrument, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions. We recognize an allowance for credit losses, up to the amount of the unrealized loss when appropriate, and write down the amortized cost basis of the investment if it is more likely than not we will be required or we intend to sell the investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Allowances for credit losses and write-downs are recognized in interest and other, net, and unrealized losses not related to credit losses are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments in debt instruments, derivative financial instruments, reverse repurchase agreements, and trade and other receivables. We generally place investments with high-credit-quality counterparties and, by policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty based on our analysis of that counterparty's relative credit standing. As required per our investment policy, substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are in investment-grade instruments. Credit-rating criteria for derivative instruments are similar to those for other investments.
We enter into master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. Due to master netting arrangements, the amounts subject to credit risk related to derivative instruments are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations exceed our obligations with that counterparty. As of December 28, 2024, our total credit exposure to any single counterparty, excluding money market funds invested in US treasury and US agency securities and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by treasury and agency securities, did not exceed $1.4 billion. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements with certain of our derivative counterparties and obtain and secure collateral from counterparties against obligations, including securities lending transactions when we deem it appropriate. Cash collateral exchanged under our collateral security arrangements is included in other current assets, other long-term assets, other accrued liabilities, or other long-term liabilities. For reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by other securities, we do not record the collateral as an asset or a liability unless the collateral is repledged.
A substantial majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to OEMs and ODMs. We also have accounts receivable derived from sales to industrial and communications equipment manufacturers in the computing and communications industries. We believe the net accounts receivable balances from our three largest customers (47% as of December 28, 2024) do not represent a significant credit risk, based on cash flow forecasts, balance sheet analysis, and past collection experience.
We have adopted credit policies and standards intended to accommodate industry growth and inherent risk. We believe credit risks are moderated by the financial stability of our major customers. We assess credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis. From this analysis, we establish shipping and credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or more credit support protection devices, such as obtaining a parent guarantee, standby letter of credit, or credit insurance.
Variable Interest Entities
We have economic interests in entities that are VIEs. If we conclude we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE, we are required to consolidate the entity in our financial statements. To determine if we are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate whether we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our evaluation includes identification of significant activities and an assessment of our ability to direct those activities based on governance provisions and arrangements to provide services to the VIE. Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary.
Non-Controlling Interests
Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of majority-owned subsidiaries consolidated under the variable interest and voting interest models. Non-controlling interests represent the portion of equity not attributable to Intel and are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax and transaction costs, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Net income (loss) and comprehensive income (loss) for majority-owned subsidiaries are attributed to Intel and to non-controlling interest holders on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) based on respective ownership percentages. We account for changes in ownership of our majority-owned subsidiaries as equity transactions when we retain a controlling financial interest.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
66
 
Table of Contents

Business Combinations
We allocate the purchase price paid for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions based on their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. This allocation involves a number of assumptions, estimates, and judgments in determining the fair value of the following:
▪inventory; property, plant, and equipment; pre-existing liabilities or legal claims; and contingent consideration; each as may be applicable;
▪intangible assets, including the valuation methodology, estimations of future cash flows, discount rates, market segment growth rates, and our assumed market segment share, as well as the estimated useful life of intangible assets;
▪deferred tax assets and liabilities, uncertain tax positions, and tax-related valuation allowances, which are initially estimated as of the acquisition date; and
▪goodwill as measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Our assumptions and estimates are based upon comparable market data and information obtained from our management and the management of the acquired companies. These assumptions and estimates are used to value assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and to allocate goodwill to the reporting units of the business that are expected to benefit from the business combination. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we may recognize adjustments to the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and related goodwill.
Employee Equity Incentive Plans
We use the straight-line amortization method to recognize share-based compensation expense over the service period of the award, net of estimated forfeitures. Upon exercise, cancellation, forfeiture, or expiration of stock options, or upon vesting or forfeiture of RSUs, we eliminate deferred tax assets for options and RSUs with multiple vesting dates for each vesting period on a first-in, first-out basis as if each vesting period were a separate award.
For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSUs vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that we pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of our employees. The obligation to pay the relevant taxing authority is contingent upon continued employment. In addition, the amount of the obligation is unknown, as it is based in part on the market price of our common stock when the awards vest.
Income Taxes
We compute the provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled.
We assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. Recovery of a portion of our deferred tax assets is affected by management's plans with respect to holding or disposing of certain investments; therefore, such changes could also affect our future provision for taxes.
We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if (based on the technical merits of the position) it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on examination by the tax authority. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for (benefit from) taxes on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
We recognize the tax impact of including certain foreign earnings in US taxable income as a period cost. We have recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-US earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we do not plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences. Remittances of non-US earnings are based on estimates and judgments of projected cash flow needs, as well as the working capital and investment requirements of our non-US and US operations. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital, and investment needs in various jurisdictions could require repatriation of indefinitely reinvested non-US earnings, which could be subject to applicable non-US income and withholding taxes.
Leases
Leases consist of real property and machinery and equipment. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options. For leases for supplier capacity, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For all other leases, we account for the lease and non-lease components separately and do not include the non-lease components in our leased assets and corresponding liabilities. Payments on leases may be fixed or variable, and variable lease payments are based on output of the underlying leased assets.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
67
 
Table of Contents

Loss Contingencies
We are subject to loss contingencies, including various legal and regulatory proceedings, asserted and potential claims, liabilities related to repair or replacement of parts in connection with product defects, as well as product warranties and potential asset impairments that arise in the ordinary course of business and are subject to change, including due to sudden or rapid developments in proceedings or claims. An estimated loss from such contingencies is recognized as a charge to income if it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate developments that could affect prior disclosures or previously accrued liabilities, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. If one or more of these matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management's estimates of losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Note 3 :	Operating Segments
 
We previously announced the implementation of our internal foundry operating model, which took effect in the first quarter of 2024, and creates a foundry relationship between our Intel Products business (collectively CCG, DCAI, and NEX) and our Intel Foundry business. Intel Products consists substantially of design and development of CPUs and related solutions for external customers. Intel Foundry consists substantially of process engineering, manufacturing, and foundry services groups that provide manufacturing, test, and assembly services to our Intel Products business and to external customers. Both businesses utilize marketing, sales, and other support functions.
Our internal foundry model is a key component of our strategy and is designed to reshape our operational dynamics and drive greater transparency, accountability, and focus on costs and efficiency. We also previously announced our intent to operate Altera as a standalone business. Altera was previously included in our DCAI segment results and, beginning in the first quarter of 2024, is included in "all other." As a result of these changes, we modified our segment reporting in the first quarter of 2024 to align to this new operating model. All prior period segment data has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the way our CODMs internally receive information and manage and monitor our operating segment performance. There are no changes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for any prior periods.
We organize our business as follows:
▪Intel Products:
▪Client Computing Group (CCG)
▪Data Center and AI (DCAI)
▪Network and Edge (NEX)
▪Intel Foundry
▪All other:
▪Altera
▪Mobileye
▪Other
CCG, DCAI, and Intel Foundry qualify as reportable operating segments. NEX, Altera, and Mobileye do not qualify as reportable operating segments; however, we have elected to disclose certain of their results. When we enter into federal contracts, they are aligned to the sponsoring operating segment.
The accounting policies applied to our segments follow those applied to Intel as a whole. A summary of the basis for which we report our operating segment revenues and operating margin is as follows:
Intel Products: CCG, DCAI, and NEX
▪Segment revenue: Consists of revenues from external customers. Our Intel Products operating segments represent most of Intel consolidated revenue and are derived from our principal products that incorporate various components and technologies, including a microprocessor and chipset, a stand-alone SoC, or a multichip package, which are based on Intel architecture.
▪Segment expenses: Consists of intersegment charges for product manufacturing and related services from Intel Foundry, external foundry and other manufacturing expenses, product development costs, allocated expenses as described below, and direct operating expenses.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
68
 
Table of Contents


Intel Foundry
▪Segment revenue: Consists substantially of intersegment product and services revenue for wafer fabrication, substrates and other related products, and services sold to Intel Products, Altera, and certain other Intel internal businesses. We recognize intersegment revenue based on the completion of performance obligations. Product revenue is recognized upon transfer of ownership, which is generally at the completion of wafer sorting. Backend service revenue is recognized upon the completion of assembly and test milestones, which approximates the recognition of revenue over the service period. Intersegment sales are recorded at prices that are intended to approximate market pricing. Intel Foundry also includes certain third-party foundry and assembly and test revenue from external customers that totaled $385 million in 2024, $953 million in 2023, and $474 million in 2022.
▪Segment expenses: Consists of direct expenses for technology development, product manufacturing and services provided by Intel Foundry to internal and external customers, allocated expenses as described below, and direct operating expenses. Direct expenses for product manufacturing include excess capacity charges.
All Other
Our "all other" category includes the results of operations from other non-reportable segments not otherwise presented, including our Altera and Mobileye businesses, start-up businesses that support our initiatives, and historical results of operations from divested businesses. The financial results of our all other category include intersegment product and services revenue and intersegment expenses.
We allocate operating expenses from our sales and marketing group to the Intel Products operating segments and allocate operating expenses from our finance and administration groups to all of our operating segments, except Mobileye.
We estimate that the substantial majority of our consolidated depreciation expense was incurred by Intel Foundry in 2024, 2023, and 2022. Intel Foundry depreciation expense is substantially included in overhead cost pools and then combined with other costs, and subsequently absorbed into inventory as each product passes through the manufacturing process and is sold to Intel Products or other customers. As a result, it is impracticable to determine the total depreciation expense included as a component of each Intel Products operating segment's operating income (loss).
We do not allocate to our operating segments corporate operating expenses that primarily consist of:
▪restructuring and other charges;
▪share-based compensation;
▪certain impairment charges; and
▪certain acquisition-related adjustments, including amortization and any impairment of acquisition-related intangibles and goodwill.
We do not allocate to our operating segments non-operating items such as:
▪gains and losses from equity investments;
▪interest and other income; and
▪income taxes.
Our interim Co-Chief Executive Officers are our CODMs. The CODMs primarily use operating income (loss) to evaluate each segment's performance and allocate resources. This measure is utilized during our budgeting and forecasting process to assess profitability and enable decision making regarding strategic initiatives, capital investments, and personnel across all operating segments. While operating income (loss) is the primary measure used by our CODMs to allocate resources, they often review materials that present operating segment gross margin. Accordingly, we have included gross margin as a secondary measure within the accompanying reconciliation of our operating segment and consolidated results. The measures regularly provided to and used by our CODMs under our new operating model continue to evolve; currently, our CODMs do not regularly review or receive discrete asset information by operating segment.
Intersegment eliminations: Intersegment sales and related gross margin on inventory recorded at the end of the period or sold through to third-party customers is eliminated for consolidation purposes. The Intel Products operating segments and Intel Foundry are meant to reflect separate fabless semiconductor and foundry companies, respectively. Thus, certain intersegment activity is captured within the intersegment eliminations upon consolidation and presented at the Intel consolidated level. This activity primarily relates to inventory reserves, which are determined and recorded based on our accounting policies for Intel as a whole, but are only recorded by the Intel Products operating segments upon transfer of inventory from Intel Foundry. If a reserve is identified that relates to neither Intel Products operating segments nor Intel Foundry, the reserve is recognized as activity within the intersegment eliminations for Intel on a consolidated basis.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
69
 
Table of Contents

Net revenue, cost of sales, gross margin, operating expenses, and operating income (loss) for each period were as follows:
(In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024
Intel Products
CCG		DCAI		NEX		
Total Intel Products
Intel Foundry
All Other
Corporate Unallocated
Intersegment Eliminations
Total Consolidated
Revenue		$	30,290 			$	12,817 			$	5,842 			$	48,949 			$	17,543 			$	3,824 			$	— 			$	(17,215)			$	53,101 	
Cost of sales		14,569 			6,792 			2,457 			23,818 			25,596 			1,831 			1,919 			(17,408)			35,756 	
Gross margin (loss)
15,721 			6,025 			3,385 			25,131 			(8,053)			1,993 			(1,919)			193 			17,345 	
Operating expenses		4,801 			4,687 			2,454 			11,942 			5,355 			2,077 			9,299 			350 			29,023 	
Operating income (loss)
$	10,920 			$	1,338 			$	931 			$	13,189 			$	(13,408)			$	(84)			$	(11,218)			$	(157)			$	(11,678)	
 
(In Millions)
Dec 30, 2023
Intel Products
CCG		DCAI		NEX		Total Intel Products		
Intel Foundry
All Other		Corporate Unallocated		Intersegment Eliminations		Total Consolidated
Revenue		$	29,258 			$	12,635 			$	5,774 			$	47,667 			$	18,910 			$	5,608 			$	— 			$	(17,957)			$	54,228 	
Cost of sales		14,606 			6,420 			3,095 			24,121 			21,471 			2,475 			2,136 			(17,686)			32,517 	
Gross margin (loss)
14,652 			6,215 			2,679 			23,546 			(2,561)			3,133 			(2,136)			(271)			21,711 	
Operating expenses		5,139 			4,595 			2,475 			12,209 			4,394 			2,054 			3,029 			(68)			21,618 	
Operating income (loss)		$	9,513 			$	1,620 			$	204 			$	11,337 			$	(6,955)			$	1,079 			$	(5,165)			$	(203)			$	93 	
 
(In Millions)
Dec 31, 2022
Intel Products
CCG		DCAI		NEX		
Total Intel Products
Intel Foundry
All Other
Corporate Unallocated
Intersegment Eliminations
Total Consolidated
Revenue		$	31,773 			$	16,856 			$	8,409 			$	57,038 			$	27,491 			$	5,530 			$	— 			$	(27,005)			$	63,054 	
Cost of sales		16,826 			7,081 			3,856 			27,763 			28,052 			2,425 			2,875 			(24,927)			36,188 	
Gross margin (loss)
14,947 			9,775 			4,553 			29,275 			(561)			3,105 			(2,875)			(2,078)			26,866 	
Operating expenses		6,740 			5,577 			3,021 			15,338 			4,608 			1,931 			2,758 			(103)			24,532 	
Operating income (loss)
$	8,207 			$	4,198 			$	1,532 			$	13,937 			$	(5,169)			$	1,174 			$	(5,633)			$	(1,975)			$	2,334 	
 























 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
70
 
Table of Contents

Corporate Unallocated Expenses
Corporate unallocated expenses include certain operating and non-operating costs not allocated to specific operating segments. The nature of these expenses may vary, but primarily consist of restructuring and other charges, share-based compensation, certain impairment charges, and certain acquisition-related costs.
(In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024
Cost of Sales
Operating Expenses
Total
Acquisition-related costs		$	879 			$	165 			$	1,044 	
Share-based compensation		875 			2,535 			3,410 	
Restructuring and other charges1
— 			6,970 			6,970 	
Other		165 			(371)			(206)	
Total corporate unallocated expenses		$	1,919 			$	9,299 			$	11,218 	
 


(In Millions)
Dec 30, 2023
Cost of Sales		Operating Expenses		Total
Acquisition-related costs		$	1,235 			$	172 			$	1,407 	
Share-based compensation		705 			2,524 			3,229 	
Restructuring and other charges1
— 			(62)			(62)	
Other		196 			395 			591 	
Total corporate unallocated expenses		$	2,136 			$	3,029 			$	5,165 	
 


(In Millions)
Dec 31, 2022
Cost of Sales		Operating Expenses		Total
Acquisition-related costs		$	1,341 			$	185 			$	1,526 	
Share-based compensation		663 			2,465 			3,128 	
Patent settlement		204 			— 			204 	
Optane inventory impairment		723 			— 			723 	
Restructuring and other charges1
— 			2 			2 	
Other		(56)			106 			50 	
Total corporate unallocated expenses		$	2,875 			$	2,758 			$	5,633 	
 

1 See "Note 7: Restructuring and Other Charges" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.





















 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
71
 
Table of Contents

Concentration of Revenue
In 2024, substantially all of the revenue from our three largest customers was from the sale of platforms and other components by our Intel Products operating segments. Our three largest customers accounted for the following percentage of our net revenue:
Years Ended
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Customer A
19 	%		19 	%		19 	%
Customer B
14 	%		11 	%		12 	%
Customer C
12 	%		10 	%		11 	%
Total percentage of net revenue
45 	%		40 	%		42 	%
 
Net revenue by region, based on the billing location of the customer, was as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
China		$	15,532 			$	14,854 			$	17,125 	
United States		12,994 			13,958 			16,529 	
Singapore		10,187 			8,602 			9,664 	
Taiwan		7,804 			6,867 			8,287 	
Other regions		6,584 			9,947 			11,449 	
Total net revenue		$	53,101 			$	54,228 			$	63,054 	
 
Note 4 :	Non-Controlling Interests
 
Non-Controlling Ownership %
Years Ended
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023  		Dec 31, 2022
Ireland SCIP		49 	%		— 	%		— 	%
Arizona SCIP		49 	%		49 	%		49 	%
Mobileye		12 	%		12 	%		6 	%
IMS Nanofabrication (IMS Nano)
32 	%		32 	%		— 	%
 


(In Millions)		Ireland SCIP		Arizona SCIP		Mobileye		
IMS Nano
Total
Non-controlling interests as of Dec 30, 2023
$	— 			$	2,359 			$	1,838 			$	178 			$	4,375 	
Partner contributions
— 			1,702 			— 			— 			1,702 	
Partner distributions
(43)			— 			— 			— 			(43)	
Changes in equity of non-controlling interest holders
— 			— 			205 			— 			205 	
Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests
104 			(173)			(371)			(37)			(477)	
Non-controlling interests as of Dec 28, 2024
$	61 			$	3,888 			$	1,672 			$	141 			$	5,762 	
 


(In Millions)		Ireland SCIP		Arizona SCIP		Mobileye		
IMS Nano
Total
Non-controlling interests as of Dec 31, 2022
$	— 			$	874 			$	989 			$	— 			$	1,863 	
Partner contributions		— 			1,511 			— 			— 			1,511 	
Changes in equity of non-controlling interest holders		— 			— 			848 			167 			1,015 	
Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests		— 			(26)			1 			11 			(14)	
Non-controlling interests as of Dec 30, 2023
$	— 			$	2,359 			$	1,838 			$	178 			$	4,375 	
 

 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
72
 
Table of Contents

Semiconductor Co-Investment Program
Ireland SCIP
In the second quarter of 2024, we closed a transaction with Apollo Global Management, Inc. (Apollo) involving the sale of 49% of our interest in an Irish limited liability company (Ireland SCIP) for net proceeds of $11.0 billion, which increased our capital in excess of par value. Ireland SCIP is a VIE that we consolidate into our Consolidated Financial Statements because we are the primary beneficiary. Generally, distributions will be received from Ireland SCIP based on both parties' proportional ownership. Ireland SCIP has the rights to operate Fab 34 in Leixlip, Ireland, and has the rights to the related factory output. We have the right to purchase 100% of the related factory output from Ireland SCIP. We will retain sole ownership of Fab 34, will be engaged as the Fab 34 operator in exchange for variable payments from Ireland SCIP based on the related factory output, and will be required to maintain certain performance standards in our capacity as operator.
We are required to substantially complete construction of Fab 34 in accordance with contractual parameters and timelines or we will be required to pay delay-related liquidated damages to Apollo beginning in 2026, not to exceed $1.1 billion in total. As of December 28, 2024, we expect certain construction milestones for Fab 34 will be delayed as we refined our near-term production capacity requirements and related capital outlays relative to those that are required per the Ireland SCIP agreement. As a result, in 2024 we recognized a loss of $755 million within Interest and other, net from the change in fair value of the liquidated damage provisions, which qualify as a non-designated derivative. Refer to "Note 16: Derivative Financial Instruments" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Though we expect certain construction delays in the near term, we intend to complete construction of Fab 34. We will be required to purchase minimum quantities of the related factory output from Ireland SCIP, or we will be subject to pay certain volume-related damages to Ireland SCIP, beginning at the earlier of when construction is complete or Q3 2027.
As of December 28, 2024, other than cash and cash equivalents held by Ireland SCIP, substantially all of the remaining assets and liabilities of Ireland SCIP were eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Arizona SCIP
We consolidate the results of an Arizona limited liability company (Arizona SCIP), a VIE, into our Consolidated Financial Statements because we are the primary beneficiary. Generally, contributions will be made to, and distributions will be received from Arizona SCIP based on Intel's and Brookfield Asset Management's (Brookfield's) proportional ownership. We will be the sole operator and main beneficiary of two new chip factories that will be constructed by Arizona SCIP, and we will have the right to purchase 100% of the related factory output. Once production commences, we will be required to both operate Arizona SCIP at minimum production levels (measured in wafer starts per week) and limit excess inventory held on site or we will be subject to certain damages.
We have an unrecognized commitment to fund our respective share of the total construction costs of Arizona SCIP. The total construction costs were estimated at $29.0 billion when we entered into the definitive agreement with Brookfield in 2022.
As of December 28, 2024, substantially all of the assets of Arizona SCIP consisted of property, plant, and equipment. The remaining assets and liabilities of Arizona SCIP were eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The assets held by Arizona SCIP, which can be used only to settle obligations of the VIE and are not available to us, were $11.5 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($4.8 billion as of December 30, 2023).
Mobileye
In 2022, Mobileye completed its IPO and certain other equity financing transactions. During 2023, we converted 38.5 million of our Mobileye Class B shares into Class A shares, representing 5% of Mobileye's outstanding capital stock, and subsequently sold the Class A shares for $42 per share as part of a secondary offering, receiving net proceeds of $1.6 billion and increasing our capital in excess of par value by $663 million, net of tax. We continue to consolidate the results of Mobileye into our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the third quarter of 2024, the non-cash impairment of goodwill related to our Mobileye reporting unit was attributed to Intel and to non-controlling interest holders based on our proportional ownership (see "Note 11: Goodwill" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
IMS Nanofabrication
In 2023, we closed agreements to sell a combined 32% minority stake in our IMS business, a business within our Intel Foundry operating segment—including a 20% stake to Bain Capital Special Situations and a 10% stake to TSMC. Net proceeds resulting from the minority stake sales totaled $1.4 billion, and our capital in excess of par value increased by $958 million, net of tax. We continue to consolidate the results of IMS into our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
73
 
Table of Contents

Note 5 :	Earnings (Loss) Per Share
 
We computed basic earnings (loss) per share of common stock based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. We computed diluted earnings (loss) per share of common stock based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus potentially dilutive shares of common stock outstanding during the period, if applicable.
Years Ended (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Net income (loss)		$	(19,233)			$	1,675 			$	8,017 	
Less: net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests		(477)			(14)			3 	
Net income (loss) attributable to Intel		$	(18,756)			$	1,689 			$	8,014 	
Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding—basic		4,280 			4,190 			4,108 	
Dilutive effect of employee equity incentive plans
— 			22 			15 	
Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding—diluted		4,280 			4,212 			4,123 	
Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Intel—basic		$	(4.38)			$	0.40 			$	1.95 	
Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Intel—diluted		$	(4.38)			$	0.40 			$	1.94 	
 
Potentially dilutive shares of common stock from employee equity incentive plans are determined by applying the treasury stock method to the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding RSUs, and the assumed issuance of common stock under the stock purchase plan. The potentially dilutive impact from the assumed issuance of common stock associated with a contractual conversion feature is determined by applying the if-converted method to the assumed exercise of the outstanding conversion feature.
At December 28, 2024, the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding RSUs, the assumed issuance of common stock under the stock purchase plan, and the assumed issuance of common stock associated with a contractual conversion feature, as applicable, had an anti-dilutive effect on diluted loss per share and were excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share. At December 28, 2024, 114 million anti-dilutive shares (70 million in 2022) were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share. In 2023, securities that would have been anti-dilutive were insignificant.
Note 6 :	Other Financial Statement Details
 
Accounts Receivable
We sell certain of our accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions. We record these transactions as sales of receivables and present cash proceeds as cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Accounts receivable sold under non-recourse factoring arrangements were $2.3 billion during 2024, $2.0 billion during 2023, and $665 million during 2022. After the sale of our accounts receivable, we expect to collect payment from the customers and remit it to the third-party financial institution.
Inventories
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Raw materials		$	1,344 			$	1,166 	
Work in process		7,432 			6,203 	
Finished goods		3,422 			3,758 	
Total inventories		$	12,198 			$	11,127 	
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
74
 
Table of Contents

Property, Plant, and Equipment
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Land and buildings		$	56,544 			$	51,182 	
Machinery and equipment		103,150 			100,033 	
Construction in progress		50,418 			43,442 	
Total property, plant, and equipment, gross
210,112 			194,657 	
Less: Accumulated depreciation		(102,193)			(98,010)	
Total property, plant, and equipment, net
$	107,919 			$	96,647 	
 
Our depreciable property, plant, and equipment assets are depreciated over the following estimated useful lives: machinery and equipment, 3 to 8 years; and buildings, 10 to 25 years.
We invest in and deploy manufacturing assets in response to manufacturing capacity requirements based upon short- and long-term demand forecasts and economic returns relative to capital outlays. We regularly monitor, evaluate, and adjust our manufacturing capacity footprint in response to a number of volatile factors that impact our business, including demand for our products and services and the state of the semiconductor industry as a whole. In connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements for the third quarter of 2024, we evaluated our current process technology node capacities relative to projected market demand for our products and services, and concluded that our manufacturing asset portfolio, primarily for our Intel 7 process node, exceeded manufacturing capacity requirements. Upon performing a re-use assessment, we impaired and accelerated depreciation for certain manufacturing assets. In total, we recorded non-cash impairments and accelerated depreciation charges of $2.3 billion and $992 million, respectively, in 2024, substantially all of which were recognized in cost of sales within our Intel Foundry operating segment.
We also incurred certain other non-cash asset impairment charges of $442 million as a direct result of the 2024 Restructuring Plan (see "Note 7: Restructuring and Other Charges" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). These charges were included as a component of "corporate unallocated expenses" within the restructuring and other category presented in "Note 3: Operating Segments" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
We negotiate extended payment terms of greater than 90 days with certain of our capital vendors, which are reported as financing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows when paid. Unpaid amounts related to the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment in 2024 under such extended payment terms, included in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, totaled $3.2 billion.
Property, plant, and equipment, net, by country at the end of each period was as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
United States		$	72,068 			$	63,234 	
Ireland		18,152 			16,746 	
Israel		10,414 			9,290 	
Other countries		7,285 			7,377 	
Total property, plant, and equipment, net
$	107,919 			$	96,647 	
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
75
 
Table of Contents

Government Incentives
We enter into government incentive arrangements with local, regional, and national governments, both US and non-US. These arrangements vary in size, duration, and conditions and allow us to maintain a market-comparable foothold across various geographies. These incentives are primarily structured as cash grants and refundable tax credits. Capital-related incentives have terms of up to 15 years and operating-related incentives have terms that can vary widely. We are eligible to receive these incentives because we engage in qualifying capital investments, R&D, and other activities as defined by the relevant government entities. These include qualifying capital investments for semiconductor wafer and advanced packaging manufacturing facilities construction and acquisition of equipment. Each incentive requires that we comply with certain conditions for a period that may exceed the incentive terms. These conditions can include achievement of future operational targets and committing to minimum levels of capital investment. If conditions are not satisfied, the incentives may be subject to reduction, recapture, or termination. For example, in November 2024 we entered into a direct funding agreement with the US Department of Commerce under the CHIPS Act that contains detailed milestones we must achieve for us to receive the funds, including the achievement of various milestones with respect to capital expenditures, facility completion, process technology development, wafer production, Intel products insourcing, and external foundry customer acquisitions. It also contains restrictions on certain “change of control” transactions we are permitted to engage in, a requirement that we share with the US government project economic returns above specified thresholds, and various termination rights and remedies if we were to breach the agreement, including potential repayment of some or all of the awards.
Capital-related incentives reduced gross property, plant, and equipment by $9.5 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($5.5 billion as of December 30, 2023), of which $4.1 billion was recognized in 2024 ($2.2 billion in 2023). Capital-related incentives reduced depreciation expense by $594 million in 2024, of which the substantial majority reduced cost of sales ($226 million in 2023, substantially all of which reduced cost of sales, and $230 million in 2022, all of which reduced cost of sales). Of our total capital-related government incentives recognized in 2024, $3.3 billion was recognized as a non-cash investing activity ($1.1 billion in 2023 and $128 million in 2022). Related incentives recognized during each period consisted of the following:
▪US federal government pursuant to the CHIPS Act. In September 2024, we were awarded up to $3.0 billion in direct funding for the Secure Enclave program to expand the trusted manufacturing of leading-edge semiconductors for the US government. In November 2024, we signed a Direct Funding Agreement with the US Department of Commerce for the award of $7.9 billion in government incentives. We recognized $1.3 billion of grants, including $253 million of operating grants, in 2024 under the CHIPS Act. Additionally, we recognized an advanced manufacturing investment tax credit of $2.6 billion in 2024 ($845 million in 2023), which may be refunded to us in cash to the extent it exceeds our outstanding income tax liabilities.
▪US state governments. We recognized $115 million of grants in 2024 related to modernization and expansion of chip factories in Oregon ($723 million in 2023 related to two new leading-edge chip factories in Ohio).
▪Non-US governments. We recognized $384 million of grants and refundable tax credits in 2024 ($645 million in 2023), substantially all and a majority of which, respectively, related to the expansion of silicon wafer manufacturing facilities in Ireland.
Operating-related incentives, including those recognized under the CHIPS Act, benefited operating income by $442 million in 2024, the substantial majority of which was recorded in cost of sales ($202 million in 2023 and $104 million in 2022, a majority of which was recorded in cost of sales in both periods).
The amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to grants receivable and capital-related refundable tax credits for each period were as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)
Location
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Operating-related grants receivables
Other current assets
$	272 			$	17 	
Other long-term assets
$	186 			$	130 	
Capital-related grants receivables
Other current assets
$	859 			$	64 	
Other long-term assets
$	374 			$	348 	
Capital-related refundable tax credits
Other current assets
$	2,099 			$	— 	
Capital-related refundable tax credits
Income taxes payable
$	— 			$	365 	
 
Advertising
Advertising costs, including direct marketing, are expensed as incurred and recorded within MG&A expenses. Advertising costs were $856 million in 2024 ($950 million in 2023 and $1.2 billion in 2022).
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
76
 
Table of Contents

Interest and Other, Net
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Interest income		$	1,245 			$	1,335 			$	589 	
Interest expense		(1,034)			(878)			(496)	
Other, net		15 			172 			1,073 	
Total interest and other, net		$	226 			$	629 			$	1,166 	
 
Interest expense is net of $1.5 billion of interest capitalized in 2024 ($1.5 billion in 2023 and $785 million in 2022).
Other, net in 2024 includes a $755 million loss from the change in fair value of a derivative related to Ireland SCIP and $560 million of interest received and recognized as a benefit in 2024 in relation to the European Commission competition matter that was recorded and paid in 2009 and refunded to us in 2022. Other, net in 2022 included a $1.0 billion gain recognized from the first closing of the divestiture of our NAND memory business.
Note 7 :	Restructuring and Other Charges
 
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Employee severance and benefit arrangements		$	2,481 			$	222 			$	1,038 	
Litigation charges and other		858 			(329)			(1,187)	
Asset impairment charges		3,631 			45 			151 	
Total restructuring and other charges		$	6,970 			$	(62)			$	2 	
 
In the third quarter of 2024, the 2024 Restructuring Plan was announced, subsequently approved and committed to by our management team, and initiated to implement cost-reduction measures, including reductions in employee headcount, other operating expenditures, and capital expenditures. Restructuring charges are primarily composed of employee severance and benefit arrangements, non-cash charges related to asset impairments associated with exit activities, and charges relating to real estate exits and consolidations. These charges were included as "corporate unallocated expenses" within the restructuring and other category presented in "Note 3: Operating Segments" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect to recognize total charges of approximately $3.0 billion under the 2024 Restructuring Plan. The cumulative cost of the 2024 Restructuring Plan as of December 28, 2024, was $2.8 billion. Any changes to our estimates or timing will be reflected in our results of operations in future periods. We expect actions pursuant to the 2024 Restructuring Plan to be substantially complete by the fourth quarter of 2025, which is subject to change.
Employee severance and benefit arrangements includes net charges relating to the 2024 Restructuring Plan of $2.2 billion in 2024. Charges relating to other actions taken to streamline operations and to reduce costs were $294 million in 2024. Charges accrued as of December 28, 2024, were recorded as current liabilities within accrued compensation and benefits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Charges in 2023 and 2022 primarily related to the 2022 Restructuring Program, which was approved to rebalance our workforce and operations in alignment with our strategy and was completed in the first quarter of 2024. The cumulative cost of the 2022 Restructuring Program as of December 28, 2024 was $1.3 billion.
Restructuring activities related to employee severance and benefit arrangements under the 2024 and 2022 Restructuring Plans were as follows:
(In Millions)
2024 Restructuring Plan		2022 Restructuring Program
Accrued balance as of December 25, 2021		$	— 			$	— 	
Accruals and adjustments		— 			1,038 	
Cash payments		— 			(165)	
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2022		— 			873 	
Accruals and adjustments		— 			222 	
Cash payments		— 			(1,013)	
Accrued balance as of December 30, 2023		— 			82 	
Accruals and adjustments		2,306 			— 	
Cash payments		(2,004)			(82)	
Accrued balance as of December 28, 2024		$	302 			$	— 	
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
77
 
Table of Contents

Litigation charges and other includes a charge of $780 million in 2024 arising out of the R2 litigation. In 2023, a $1.2 billion benefit was recorded due to the reduction in the previously accrued charge as a result of developments in the VLSI litigation. 2023 charges also included a $401 million charge for an EC-imposed fine and a $353 million termination fee in connection with our inability to timely obtain required regulatory approvals needed to acquire Tower. In 2009, we recorded and paid an EC-imposed fine that was subsequently annulled, which resulted in a benefit of $1.2 billion in 2022. Refer to "Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about litigation related items.
Asset impairment charges in 2024 includes non-cash charges associated with the 2024 Restructuring Plan, including $442 million of non-cash impairments of construction-in-progress assets associated with our decision to exit and outsource manufacturing capabilities for certain internal test hardware; and $103 million of non-cash impairments of operating leased assets and related leasehold improvements resulting from real estate consolidations and exits. Real estate consolidations and exits did not significantly change our operating lease liabilities and may result in future cash outlays for facility restoration or the relocation of operations. These impairments were recorded within property, plant, and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, except for the impairment of operating leased assets of $83 million that were recorded within other long-term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 28, 2024.
In addition, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $3.0 billion in 2024 (see "Note 11: Goodwill" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Further, as a result of a decline in the actual and projected undiscounted cash flows for certain acquired intangible assets, we concluded the assets were not recoverable and recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $108 million in 2024.
Note 8 :	Income Taxes
 
Provision for (Benefit From) Taxes
Years Ended ($ In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Income (losses) before taxes:
US		$	(13,450)			$	(4,749)			$	(1,161)	
Non-US		2,241 			5,511 			8,929 	
Total income before taxes		$	(11,210)			$	762 			$	7,768 	
Provision for (benefit from) taxes:						
Current:						
Federal		$	600 			$	538 			$	4,106 	
State		(8)			23 			68 	
Non-US		1,364 			535 			735 	
Total current provision for (benefit from) taxes		1,956 			1,096 			4,909 	
Deferred:						
Federal		6,192 			(2,048)			(5,806)	
State		67 			(21)			(40)	
Non-US		(192)			60 			688 	
Total deferred provision for (benefit from) taxes		6,067 			(2,009)			(5,158)	
Total provision for (benefit from) taxes		$	8,023 			$	(913)			$	(249)	
Effective tax rate		71.6 	%		(119.8)	%		(3.2)	%
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
78
 
Table of Contents

The difference between the tax provision (benefit) at the statutory federal income tax rate and the tax provision as a percentage of income before income taxes (effective tax rate) for each period was as follows:
Years Ended
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Expected provision (benefit) at statutory federal income tax rate
(21.0)	%		21.0 	%		21.0 	%
Increase (reduction) in rate resulting from:						
Federal valuation allowance
93.2 			— 			— 	
Goodwill impairment
2.1 			— 			— 	
Share-based compensation
4.2 			34.3 			3.0 	
Unrecognized tax benefits and settlements		1.3 			16.3 			4.5 	
Non-US income taxed at different rates		(5.3)			(60.6)			(13.4)	
Research and development tax credits		(5.6)			(99.0)			(11.4)	
Foreign derived intangible income benefit
— 			(25.1)			(9.7)	
Restructuring of certain non-US subsidiaries
— 			(15.8)			(2.2)	
Non-deductibility of European Commission fine
— 			11.1 			(4.1)	
Other		2.7 			(2.0)			9.1 	
Effective tax rate		71.6 	%		(119.8)	%		(3.2)	%
 
Our effective tax rate increased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by the effects associated with the establishment of a valuation allowance against our US federal deferred tax assets in 2024. We assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets quarterly, weighing available positive and negative evidence. As a result of our assessment in the third quarter of 2024, we determined it was more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be recoverable based upon our three-year cumulative historical loss position as of the third quarter of 2024, largely resulting from the asset impairment and restructuring and other charges incurred during 2024. Additionally, our 2024 provision for taxes and 2023 benefit from taxes included R&D tax credits, which provide a tax benefit based on our eligible R&D spending and are not dependent on lower income before taxes.
Our effective tax rate decreased in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by our R&D tax credits and a higher proportion of our income being taxed in non-US jurisdictions.
We derive the effective tax rate benefit, or detriment, attributed to non-US income taxed at different rates primarily from our operations in Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, and Malaysia. The statutory tax rates in these jurisdictions range from 12.5% to 24.0%. We are subject to reduced tax rates in Israel and Malaysia as long as we conduct certain eligible activities and make certain capital investments. We have conditional reduced tax rates that expire at various dates through 2056, and we expect to apply for renewals upon expiration, if available. In 2024 the tax benefit specifically attributable to tax holidays was $67 million ($129 million in 2023 and $220 million in 2022) with a $0.02 impact on diluted earnings per share ($0.03 in 2023 and $0.05 in 2022).
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
79
 
Table of Contents

Deferred and Current Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of each period were as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Deferred tax assets:				
R&D expenditures capitalization		$	10,709 			$	7,726 	
State credits and net operating losses		2,830 			2,624 	
Inventory		1,054 			1,430 	
Accrued compensation and other benefits		970 			931 	
Share-based compensation		444 			586 	
Litigation charge		447 			308 	
Other, net		1,510 			926 	
Gross deferred tax assets		17,964 			14,531 	
Valuation allowance		(13,974)			(3,047)	
Total deferred tax assets		3,990 			11,484 	
Deferred tax liabilities:				
Property, plant, and equipment
(4,063)			(5,156)	
Licenses and intangibles		(159)			(494)	
Unrealized gains on investments and derivatives		(224)			(358)	
Other, net		(403)			(203)	
Total deferred tax liabilities		(4,849)			(6,211)	
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)		$	(859)			$	5,273 	
Reported as:				
Deferred tax assets		603 			5,459 	
Deferred tax liabilities		(1,462)			(186)	
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)		$	(859)			$	5,273 	
 
Changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets were as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets:
Balance at Beginning of Year
$	3,047 			$	2,586 	
Additions Charged to Expenses/Other Accounts
10,927 			461 	
(Deductions) Recoveries, Net
— 			— 	
Balance at End of Year
$	13,974 			$	3,047 	
 
Deferred tax assets are included within other long-term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The $10.9 billion change in valuation allowance from December 30, 2023 to December 28, 2024 is largely attributable to the uncertainty regarding the realizability of the US deferred tax assets.
As of December 28, 2024, our federal and non-US net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were $279 million and $2.7 billion, respectively. The majority of the federal and non-US net operating loss carryforwards have no expiration date. The remaining federal and non-US net operating loss carryforwards expire at various dates through 2040.
As of December 28, 2024, we have undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries of approximately $21.0 billion that we have indefinitely invested, and on which we have not recognized deferred taxes. Estimating the amount of potential tax is not practicable because of the complexity and variety of assumptions necessary to compute the tax.
Current income taxes receivable of $2.6 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($59 million as of December 30, 2023) are included in other current assets.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
80
 
Table of Contents

Long-term income taxes payable of $1.6 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($2.6 billion as of December 30, 2023) are primarily composed of the transition tax from Tax Reform, which is payable over eight years beginning in 2018, as well as amounts for uncertain tax positions, reduced by the associated deduction for state taxes and non-US tax credits.
Uncertain Tax Positions
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits		$	1,124 			$	1,229 			$	1,020 	
Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities		(59)			(288)			(18)	
Changes in balances related to tax position taken during prior periods		(8)			— 			(120)	
Changes in balances related to tax position taken during current period		73 			183		347
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits		$	1,130 			$	1,124 			$	1,229 	
 
If the remaining balance of unrecognized tax benefits were recognized in a future period, it would result in a tax benefit of $946 million as of December 28, 2024 ($962 million as of December 30, 2023) and a reduction in the effective tax rate. Interest, penalties, and accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits were insignificant in the periods presented.
We regularly engage in discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Although the timing of the resolutions and/or closures of audits is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible that certain US federal and non-US tax audits may be concluded within the next 12 months, which could increase or decrease the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits. We estimate that the unrecognized tax benefits as of December 28, 2024, could decrease by as much as $314 million in the next 12 months.
We file federal, state, and non-US tax returns. We are no longer subject to US federal and non-US tax examinations for years prior to 2018 and 2015, respectively. For US state tax returns, we are no longer subject to tax examination for years prior to 2015.
Note 9 :	Investments
 
Short-term Investments
Short-term investments include marketable debt investments in corporate debt, government debt, and financial institution instruments, and are recorded within cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Government debt includes instruments such as non-US government bills and bonds and US agency securities. Financial institution instruments include instruments issued or managed by financial institutions in various forms, such as commercial paper, fixed- and floating-rate bonds, money market fund deposits, and time deposits. As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, substantially all time deposits were issued by institutions outside the US.
The fair value of our economically hedged marketable debt investments was $13.5 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($17.1 billion as of December 30, 2023). For hedged investments still held at the reporting date, we recorded net losses of $464 million in 2024 (net gains of $534 million in 2023 and net losses of $748 million in 2022).
Our remaining unhedged marketable debt investments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The adjusted cost of our unhedged investments was $5.2 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($4.7 billion as of December 30, 2023), which approximated the fair value for these periods.
The fair value of marketable debt investments, by contractual maturity, as of December 28, 2024, was as follows:
(In Millions)		Fair Value
Due in 1 year or less		$	5,690 	
Due in 1–2 years		2,321 	
Due in 2–5 years		6,182 	
Due after 5 years		168 	
Instruments not due at a single maturity date1
4,316 	
Total		$	18,677 	
 
1    Instruments not due at a single maturity date is composed of money market fund deposits, which are classified as either short-term investments or cash and cash equivalents.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
81
 
Table of Contents

Equity Investments
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Marketable equity investments1
$	848 			$	1,194 	
Non-marketable equity investments
4,535 			4,635 	
Total		$	5,383 			$	5,829 	
 
1    Most of our marketable equity investments are subject to trading-volume or market-based restrictions, which limit the number of shares we may sell in a specified period of time, impacting our ability to liquidate these investments. Certain of the trading-volume restrictions generally apply for as long as we own more than 1% of the outstanding shares. Market-based restrictions result from the rules of the respective exchange.
The components of gains (losses) on equity investments, net for each period were as follows:
Years Ended (in Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Unrealized gains (losses) on marketable equity investments
$	(218)			$	(99)			$	(829)	
Unrealized gains (losses) on non-marketable equity investments1
92 			17 			299 	
Impairment charges		(347)			(214)			(190)	
Unrealized gains (losses) on equity investments, net
(473)			(296)			(720)	
Realized gains (losses) on sales of equity investments, net
$	715 			$	336 			$	4,988 	
Gains (losses) on equity investments, net 		$	242 			$	40 			$	4,268 	
 
1    Unrealized gains (losses) on non-marketable investments includes observable price adjustments and our share of equity method investee gains (losses) and certain distributions.
As of December 28, 2024, the cumulative amount of impairments for equity investments without readily determinable fair value was $1.4 billion ($1.1 billion as of December 30, 2023) and upward observable price adjustments were $1.4 billion ($1.4 billion as of December 30, 2023).
McAfee Corp.
During 2022, the sale of McAfee's consumer business was completed and we received $4.6 billion in cash for the sale of our remaining share of McAfee, recognizing a $4.6 billion gain in realized gains (losses) on sales of equity investments, net.
Note 10 :	Divestitures
 
NAND Memory Business
We sold our NAND memory technology and manufacturing business (the NAND OpCo Business) to SK hynix Inc. (SK hynix), which we deconsolidated upon closing the first phase of the transaction on December 29, 2021. We have a receivable within other current assets for the transaction's remaining proceeds of $2.0 billion, which remains outstanding as of December 28, 2024 and will be received upon the second closing of the transaction, expected to be in March 2025.
In connection with the transaction, we have a wafer manufacturing and sale agreement that includes incentives and penalties that are contingent on the cost of operation and output of the NAND OpCo Business. These incentives and penalties present a maximum exposure of up to $500 million annually, and $1.5 billion in the aggregate. We are currently in negotiations with SK hynix to update the operating plan of the NAND OpCo Business, which may impact the metrics associated with the incentives and penalties and our expectations of the performance of the NAND OpCo Business against those metrics.
We were reimbursed for costs that we incurred on behalf of the NAND OpCo Business for corporate function services, which include human resources, information technology, finance, supply chain, and other compliance requirements. We recorded a receivable due from the NAND OpCo Business, a deconsolidated entity, of $98 million within other current assets as of December 28, 2024 ($145 million recorded as of December 30, 2023).
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
82
 
Table of Contents

Note 11 :	Goodwill
 

(In Millions)		Dec 30, 2023		Acquisitions		Transfers		Impairments		Dec 28, 2024
Client Computing		$	4,749 			$	— 			$	(130)			$	— 			$	4,619 	
Data Center and AI		8,721 			— 			(777)			— 			7,944 	
Network and Edge		2,809 			— 			(29)			— 			2,780 	
Intel Foundry		— 			— 			222 			(222)			— 	
Mobileye		10,919 			— 			— 			(2,613)			8,306 	
Altera		— 			— 			781 			— 			781 	
All Other		393 			86 			(67)			(149)			263 	
Total		$	27,591 			$	86 			$	— 			$	(2,984)			$	24,693 	
 
(In Millions)		Dec 31, 2022		Acquisitions		Transfers		Other		Dec 30, 2023
Client Computing		$	4,254 			$	— 			$	495 			$	— 			$	4,749 	
Data Center and AI		9,013 			— 			(292)			— 			8,721 	
Network and Edge		2,809 			— 			— 			— 			2,809 	
Mobileye		10,919 			—		— 			— 			10,919 	
Accelerated Computing Systems and Graphics		596 			—		(596)			— 			— 	
All other		— 			— 			393 			— 			393 	
Total		$	27,591 			$	— 			$	— 			$	— 			$	27,591 	
 
Our quarterly qualitative impairment assessment for the third quarter of 2024 indicated that a more detailed quantitative analysis was necessary for certain of our reporting units, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization below the carrying value of our net assets, as well as the decline in our Mobileye reporting unit's market capitalization below the carrying value of Mobileye's net assets. Our quantitative assessment was performed by measuring each reporting unit's fair value using the income approach, the market approach, or a combination of both. When using the income approach, we tested the reasonableness of the inputs and outcomes of our discounted cash flow analysis against available market data. As a result of our impairment tests, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $2.8 billion in the third quarter of 2024 within restructuring and other, most of which related to our Mobileye reporting unit, as the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was lower than the assigned carrying value. The process of valuing each reporting unit is inherently subjective as valuation models require the application of significant estimates and the use of unobservable inputs, including market segment share, projected financial information, and discount rates. No impairment was required for our other reporting units, even when considering a hypothetical increase in the discount rate of 1%, which would cause a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of the respective non-impaired reporting units. Finally, to corroborate our estimated fair value, we performed a market capitalization reconciliation as of September 28, 2024, concluding that the implied control premium was reasonable. The accumulated impairment loss as of December 28, 2024 was $3.9 billion: $2.6 billion associated with Mobileye, $364 million associated with CCG, $275 million associated with DCAI, $79 million associated with NEX, and the remainder associated with other reporting units.
In the first quarter of 2024, as a result of modifying our segment reporting, we reallocated goodwill among our affected reporting units on a relative fair value basis. We performed a quantitative goodwill impairment assessment for each of our reporting units immediately before and after our business reorganization. We concluded, based on our pre-reorganization impairment test, that goodwill was not impaired. As a result of our post-reorganization impairment test, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment loss of $222 million within restructuring and other in the first quarter of 2024 related to our Intel Foundry reporting unit, as the estimated fair value of the new reporting unit was lower than the assigned carrying value, which includes substantially all of our allocated property, plant, and equipment. The Intel Foundry reporting unit has no remaining goodwill. At the conclusion of our impairment assessment performed during the first quarter of 2024, the fair value substantially exceeded the carrying value for all remaining reporting units.



 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
83
 
Table of Contents

Note 12 :	Identified Intangible Assets
 
December 28, 2024		December 30, 2023
(In Millions)		Gross Assets		Accumulated Amortization		Net		Gross Assets		Accumulated Amortization		Net
Developed technology		$	8,007 			$	(6,445)			$	1,562 			$	10,520 			$	(7,996)			$	2,524 	
Customer relationships and brands		1,907 			(1,372)			535 			1,986 			(1,286)			700 	
Licensed technology and patents		3,387 			(1,852)			1,535 			3,088 			(1,728)			1,360 	
Internal-use software		128 			(73)			55 			— 			— 			— 	
Other non-amortizing intangibles		4 			— 			4 			5 			— 			5 	
Total identified intangible assets		$	13,433 			$	(9,742)			$	3,691 			$	15,599 			$	(11,010)			$	4,589 	
 
During 2024 and 2023, we entered into and/or renewed several licensed technology arrangements totaling $562 million and $309 million respectively, which are subject to amortization.
Amortization expenses recorded for and the weighted average useful life assigned to identified intangible assets in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for each period were as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)		Location		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022		
Weighted Average Useful Life1
Developed technology		Cost of sales		$	879 			$	1,235 			$	1,341 			9 years
Customer relationships and brands		Marketing, general, and administrative		165 			172 			185 			12 years
Licensed technology and patents		Cost of sales		360 			348 			381 			12 years
Internal-use software		Marketing, general, and administrative		24 			— 			— 			5 years
Total amortization expenses				$	1,428 			$	1,755 			$	1,907 			
 
1 Represents weighted average useful life in years of intangible assets as of December 28, 2024.
We expect future amortization expense for the next five years and thereafter to be as follows:
(In Millions)		2025		2026		2027		2028		2029		Thereafter		Total
Future amortization expenses		$	998 			$	858 			$	655 			$	431 			$	252 			$	493 			$	3,687 	
 
Note 13 :	Borrowings
 
Short-Term Debt
Short-term debt, which primarily includes the current portion of long-term debt, was $3.7 billion as of December 28, 2024, and $2.3 billion as of December 30, 2023. The current portion of long-term debt includes debt classified as short-term based on time remaining until maturity.
We have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $10.0 billion under our commercial paper program. As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, we had no commercial paper outstanding.

 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
84
 
Table of Contents

Long-Term Debt
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
($ In Millions)
Effective Interest Rate
Amount		Amount
Fixed-rate senior notes:						
2.88%, due May 2024		—%		$	— 			$	1,250 	
2.70%, due June 2024		—%		— 			600 	
3.40%, due March 2025		3.44%		1,500 			1,500 	
3.70%, due July 2025		7.49%		2,250 			2,250 	
4.88%, due February 2026		4.93%		1,500 			1,500 	
2.60%, due May 2026		5.97%		1,000 			1,000 	
3.75%, due March 2027		3.78%		1,000 			1,000 	
3.15%, due May 2027		6.54%		1,000 			1,000 	
3.75%, due August 2027		3.81%		1,250 			1,250 	
4.88%, due February 2028		4.92%		1,750 			1,750 	
1.60%, due August 2028		1.67%		1,000 			1,000 	
4.00%, due August 2029		4.05%		850 			850 	
2.45%, due November 2029		2.38%		2,000 			2,000 	
5.13%, due February 2030		5.14%		1,250 			1,250 	
3.90%, due March 2030		3.91%		1,500 			1,500 	
5.00%, due February 2031
4.99%		500 			— 	
2.00%, due August 2031		2.02%		1,250 			1,250 	
4.15%, due August 2032		4.17%		1,250 			1,250 	
4.00%, due December 2032		6.59%		750 			750 	
5.20%, due February 2033		5.23%		2,250 			2,250 	
5.15%, due February 2034		5.20%		900 			— 	
4.60%, due March 2040		4.59%		750 			750 	
2.80%, due August 2041		2.81%		750 			750 	
4.80%, due October 2041		7.33%		802 			802 	
4.25%, due December 2042		6.70%		567 			567 	
5.63%, due February 2043		5.61%		1,000 			1,000 	
4.90%, due July 2045		7.46%		772 			772 	
4.10%, due May 2046		6.74%		1,250 			1,250 	
4.10%, due May 2047		6.70%		1,000 			1,000 	
4.10%, due August 2047		6.27%		640 			640 	
3.73%, due December 2047		7.11%		1,967 			1,967 	
3.25%, due November 2049		3.19%		2,000 			2,000 	
4.75%, due March 2050		4.73%		2,250 			2,250 	
3.05%, due August 2051		3.05%		1,250 			1,250 	
4.90%, due August 2052		4.89%		1,750 			1,750 	
5.70%, due February 2053		5.68%		2,000 			2,000 	
5.60%, due February 2054
5.61%		1,150 			— 	
3.10%, due February 2060		3.10%		1,000 			1,000 	
4.95%, due March 2060		4.98%		1,000 			1,000 	
3.20%, due August 2061		3.20%		750 			750 	
5.05%, due August 2062		5.03%		900 			900 	
5.90%, due February 2063		5.88%		1,250 			1,250 	
 


 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
85
 
Table of Contents

Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
($ In Millions)
Effective Interest Rate
Amount		Amount
Oregon and Arizona bonds1:
3.80% - 4.10%, due December 2035 - 2040		3.87%		423 			423 	
5.00%, due September 2042		3.63%		131 			131 	
5.00%, due June 2049		—%		— 			438 	
4.00%, due June 2049		3.99%		438 			— 	
5.00%, due September 2052		4.24%		445 			445 	
Total senior notes and other borrowings				50,985 			50,285 	
Unamortized premium/discount, issuance costs and other				(392)			(445)	
Hedge accounting fair value adjustments				(582)			(574)	
Long-term debt				50,011 			49,266 	
Current portion of long-term debt2
(3,729)			(2,288)	
Total long-term debt				$	46,282 			$	46,978 	
 
1 These bonds may be remarketed or tendered on a periodic basis and will be classified within the current portion of long-term debt in the 12 months before remarketing or tendering.
2 As of December 28, 2024, current portion of long-term debt includes $36M of hedge accounting fair value adjustments ($0 as of December 30, 2023)

Senior Notes
In 2024, we issued a total of $2.6 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, and settled in cash $1.9 billion of our senior notes that matured in May 2024 and June 2024.
In 2023, we issued a total of $11.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes.
Our fixed-rate senior notes pay interest semiannually. We may redeem the fixed-rate notes prior to their maturity at our option at specified redemption prices and subject to certain restrictions. The obligations under the notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and will effectively rank junior to all liabilities of our subsidiaries.
Oregon and Arizona Bonds
In 2024, we remarketed $438 million aggregate principal amount of bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona. In accordance with loan agreements we entered into with the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona, the bonds are unsecured general obligations. The bonds mature in 2049 and have a 4.0% coupon. The bonds are subject to optional tender starting in February 2029 and mandatory tender in June 2029, at which time we may remarket the bonds for a new term period.
In 2023, we remarketed $423 million aggregate principal amount of bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona (the Arizona bonds) and the State of Oregon Business Development Commission (the Oregon bonds). The bonds are unsecured general obligations in accordance with loan agreements we entered into with each of the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona (CIDA) and the State of Oregon Business Development Commission. The bonds mature in 2035 and 2040 and have 3.8% and 4.1% coupons. Both the Arizona and Oregon bonds are subject to optional tender starting in February 2028 and mandatory tender in June 2028, at which time we may remarket the bonds for a new term period.
Revolving Credit Facilities
In 2024, we expanded both our 5-year $5.0 billion revolving credit facility agreement and our 364-day $5.0 billion credit facility agreement, to $7.0 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, and the maturity dates were extended by one year to February 2029 and January 2025, respectively. These credit facilities are unsecured general obligations. The revolving credit facilities had no borrowings outstanding as of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023.
In January 2025, we amended our 364-day $8.0 billion credit facility agreement to $5.0 billion, and the maturity date was extended by one year to January 2026.

Debt Maturities
Our aggregate debt maturities, based on outstanding principal as of December 28, 2024, by year payable, are as follows:
(In Millions)		2025	2026		2027		2028		2029		2030 and thereafter		Total
$	3,750 		$	2,500 			$	3,826 			$	3,173 			$	3,288 			$	34,448 			$	50,985 	
 

 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
86
 
Table of Contents

Note 14 :	Fair Value
 
Assets and Liabilities Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
December 28, 2024		December 30, 2023
Fair Value Measurements
Total
Fair Value Measurements
Total
(In Millions)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 1		Level 2		Level 3	
Assets																
Cash equivalents:																
Corporate debt		$	— 			$	— 			$	— 			$	— 			$	—		$	769 			$	—		$	769 	
Financial institution instruments1
4,121 			743 			— 			4,864 			2,241 			835 			—		3,076 	
Reverse repurchase agreements		— 			2,654 			— 			2,654 			—		2,554 			—		2,554 	
Short-term investments:																
Corporate debt		— 			5,365 			— 			5,365 			—		6,951 			—		6,951 	
Financial institution instruments1
195 			3,356 			— 			3,551 			33 			4,215 			—		4,248 	
Government debt2
33 			4,864 			— 			4,897 			— 			6,756 			—		6,756 	
Other current assets:																
Derivative assets		348 			733 			— 			1,081 			366		809 			—		1,175 	
Marketable equity securities		848 			— 			— 			848 			1,194 			— 			—		1,194 	
Other long-term assets:																
Derivative assets		— 			1 			— 			1 			—		21 			— 			21 	
Total assets measured and recorded at fair value		$	5,545 			$	17,716 			$	— 			$	23,261 			$	3,834 			$	22,910 			$	— 			$	26,744 	
Liabilities																
Other accrued liabilities:																
Derivative liabilities		$	— 			$	562 			$	134 			$	696 			$	—		$	541 			$	99		$	640 	
Other long-term liabilities:																
Derivative liabilities3
— 			416 			755 			1,171 			—		479 			—		479 	
Total liabilities measured and recorded at fair value		$	— 			$	978 			$	889 			$	1,867 			$	—		$	1,020 			$	99		$	1,119 	
 
1.Level 1 investments consist of money market funds. Level 2 investments consist primarily of certificates of deposit, commercial paper, time deposits, notes, and bonds issued by financial institutions
2.Level 1 investments consist primarily of US Treasury securities. Level 2 investments consist primarily of non-US government debt
3.Level 3 derivative liabilities include liquidated damage provisions related to our Ireland SCIP arrangement

Assets Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis
Our non-marketable equity investments, equity method investments, and certain non-financial assets—such as intangible assets, goodwill, and property, plant, and equipment—are recorded at fair value only if an impairment or observable price adjustment is recognized in the current period. If an observable price adjustment or impairment is recognized on our non-marketable equity investments during the period, we classify these assets as Level 3. Similarly, impairments recognized on our goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant, and equipment are categorized as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy, as we utilize unobservable inputs such as prospective financial information, market segment growth rates, and discount rates in the fair value measurement process.
Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis include non-marketable equity investments and equity method investments that have not been remeasured or impaired in the current period, grants receivable, certain other receivables, and issued debt.
We classify the fair value of grants receivable as Level 2. The estimated fair value of these financial assets approximates their carrying value. The aggregate carrying value of grants receivable as of December 28, 2024 was $1.7 billion (the aggregate carrying value of grants receivable as of December 30, 2023 was $559 million).
We classify the fair value of issued debt (excluding commercial paper) as Level 2. The fair value of these instruments was $43.5 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($47.6 billion as of December 30, 2023).
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
87
 
Table of Contents

Note 15 :	Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component and related tax effects for each period were as follows:
(In Millions)
Unrealized Holding Gains (Losses) on Derivatives		Actuarial Valuation and Other Pension Expenses		Translation Adjustments and Other		Total
Balance as of December 25, 2021		$	211 			$	(1,114)			$	23 			$	(880)	
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications		(910)			923 			(28)			(15)	
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss		410 			82 			(6)			486 	
Tax effects		(10)			(150)			7 			(153)	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		(510)			855 			(27)			318 	
Balance as of December 31, 2022		(299)			(259)			(4)			(562)	
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications		3 			57 			11 			71 	
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss		328 			33 			— 			361 	
Tax effects		(59)			(24)			(2)			(85)	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		272 			66 			9 			347 	
Balance as of December 30, 2023		(27)			(193)			5 			(215)	
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications		(652)			54 			(4)			(602)	
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss		96 			11 			2 			109 	
Tax effects		1 			(5)			1 			(3)	
Other comprehensive income (loss)		(555)			60 			(1)			(496)	
Balance as of December 28, 2024		$	(582)			$	(133)			$	4 			$	(711)	
 
Note 16 :	Derivative Financial Instruments
 
Volume of Derivative Activity
The total gross notional amounts for outstanding derivatives (recorded at fair value) at the end of each period were as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Foreign currency contracts		$	25,472 			$	30,064 			$	31,603 	
Interest rate contracts		17,899 			18,363 			16,011 	
Other		2,593 			2,103 			2,094 	
Total		$	45,964 			$	50,530 			$	49,708 	
 
The total notional amount of outstanding pay-variable, receive-fixed interest rate swaps was $12.0 billion as of December 28, 2024 and as of December 30, 2023.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
88
 
Table of Contents

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
December 28, 2024		December 30, 2023
(In Millions)		
Assets1
Liabilities2
Assets1
Liabilities2
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:								
Foreign currency contracts3
$	40 			$	405 			$	255 			$	142 	
Interest rate contracts		— 			582 			— 			578 	
Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments		40 			987 			255 			720 	
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:								
Foreign currency contracts3
510 			100 			314 			363 	
Interest rate contracts		184 			25 			261 			36 	
Equity contracts		348 			— 			366 			— 	
Other4
— 			755 			— 			— 	
Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments		1,042 			880 			941 			399 	
Total derivatives		$	1,082 			$	1,867 			$	1,196 			$	1,119 	
 
1Derivative assets are recorded as other assets, current and long-term.
2Derivative liabilities are recorded as other liabilities, current and long-term.
3A substantial majority of these instruments mature within 12 months.
4Embedded derivative related to our Ireland SCIP arrangement.

Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
Agreements subject to master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral posted under such agreements at the end of each period were as follows:
December 28, 2024
Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Balance Sheet		
(In Millions)		Gross Amounts Recognized		Gross Amounts Offset in the Balance Sheet		Net Amounts Presented in the Balance Sheet		Financial Instruments		Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received or Pledged		Net Amount
Assets:												
Derivative assets subject to master netting arrangements		$	948 			$	— 			$	948 			$	(269)			$	(679)			$	— 	
Reverse repurchase agreements		2,654 			— 			2,654 			— 			(2,654)			— 	
Total assets		$	3,602 			$	— 			$	3,602 			$	(269)			$	(3,333)			$	— 	
Liabilities:												
Derivative liabilities subject to master netting arrangements		1,084 			— 			1,084 			(269)			(745)			70 	
Total liabilities		$	1,084 			$	— 			$	1,084 			$	(269)			$	(745)			$	70 	
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
89
 
Table of Contents

December 30, 2023
Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Balance Sheet		
(In Millions)		Gross Amounts Recognized		Gross Amounts Offset in the Balance Sheet		Net Amounts Presented in the Balance Sheet		Financial Instruments		Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received or Pledged		Net Amount
Assets:												
Derivative assets subject to master netting arrangements		$	1,047 			$	— 			$	1,047 			$	(617)			$	(430)			$	— 	
Reverse repurchase agreements		2,554 			— 			2,554 			— 			(2,554)			— 	
Total assets		$	3,601 			$	— 			$	3,601 			$	(617)			$	(2,984)			$	— 	
Liabilities:												
Derivative liabilities subject to master netting arrangements		1,111 			— 			1,111 			(617)			(399)			95 	
Total liabilities		$	1,111 			$	— 			$	1,111 			$	(617)			$	(399)			$	95 	
 
We obtain and secure available collateral from counterparties against obligations, including securities lending transactions and reverse repurchase agreements, when we deem it appropriate.
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships
The before-tax net gains or losses attributed to the effective portion of cash flow hedges recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) were $652 million net losses in 2024 ($3 million net gains in 2023 and $910 million net losses in 2022). Substantially all of our cash flow hedges are foreign currency contracts for all periods presented.
Amounts excluded from effectiveness testing were $205 million net losses in 2024 ($221 million net losses in 2023 and $117 million net losses in 2022).
For information on the unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into the Consolidated Statements of Operations, see "Note 15: Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationships
The effects of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, recognized in interest and other, net for each period were as follows:
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Recognized in Consolidated Statements of Operations
Years Ended (In Millions)		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Interest rate contracts		$	(4)			$	198 			$	(1,551)	
Hedged items		4 			(198)			1,551 	
Total		$	— 			$	— 			$	— 	
 
The amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges for each period were as follows:
Line Items in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Which the Hedged Item Is Included		Carrying Amount of the Hedged Item Assets/(Liabilities)		Cumulative Amount of Fair Value Hedging Adjustment Included in the Carrying Amount Assets/(Liabilities)
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Long-term debt		$	(9,201)			$	(11,419)			$	546 			$	578 	
Short-term debt		(2,214)			— 			36 			— 	
Total		$	(11,415)			$	(11,419)			$	582 			$	578 	
 


 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
90
 
Table of Contents

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
The effects of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for each period were as follows:
Years Ended (In Millions)		Location of Gains (Losses)
Recognized in Income on Derivatives		Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Foreign currency contracts		Interest and other, net		$	651 			$	106 			$	1,492 	
Interest rate contracts		Interest and other, net		182 			50 			309 	
Other		Various		(411)			325 			(502)	
Total		$	422 			$	481 			$	1,299 	
 
Our Ireland SCIP agreement with Apollo contains construction-related liquidated damage provisions that meet the definition of an embedded derivative that is not clearly and closely related to the relevant host contract, thus requiring bifurcation and separate accounting as a derivative liability. As of December 28, 2024, we assessed the probability of paying damages to Apollo and recognized a loss of $755 million in 2024 within Interest and other, net, and a derivative liability within Other long-term liabilities. We will periodically reassess the probability of paying such liquidated damages and recognize changes in the fair value of the underlying liability through Interest and other, net.
Note 17 :	Retirement Benefit Plans
 
Defined Contribution Plans
We provide tax-qualified defined contribution plans for the benefit of eligible employees, former employees, and retirees in the US and certain other countries. The plans are designed to provide employees with an accumulation of funds for retirement on a tax-deferred basis. For the benefit of eligible US employees, we also provide an unfunded non-tax-qualified supplemental deferred compensation plan for certain highly compensated employees, which had a balance of $3.3 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($2.9 billion as of December 30, 2023), recorded within other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We expensed $541 million in 2024, $272 million in 2023, and $489 million in 2022 for matching contributions based on the amount of employee contributions under the US qualified defined contribution and non-qualified deferred compensation plans. The matching contribution in the US qualified defined contribution plan was increased from January 1 through December 31, 2024 as compared to 2023 and 2022. The matching contribution in the US qualified defined contribution plan was reduced from March 1 through December 30, 2023 as compared to 2022.
US Retiree Medical Plan
Upon retirement, we provide certain benefits to eligible US employees who were hired prior to 2014 under the US Retiree Medical Plan. The benefits can be used to pay all or a portion of the cost to purchase eligible coverage in a medical plan.
As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, the projected benefit obligations were $493 million and $490 million, which used the discount rates of 5.7% and 5.3%. The December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023 corresponding fair values of plan assets were $542 million and $548 million. As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, the US Retiree Medical Plan was in the net asset position.
The investment strategy for US Retiree Medical Plan assets is to invest primarily in liquid assets, due to the level of expected future benefit payments. The assets are invested in tax-aware global equity and fixed-income long credit portfolios. Both portfolios are actively managed by external managers. The tax-aware global equity portfolio is composed of a diversified mix of equities in developed countries. The tax-aware fixed-income long credit portfolio is composed of domestic securities. The allocation to each asset class will fluctuate with market conditions, such as volatility and liquidity concerns, and will typically be rebalanced when outside the target ranges, which are 50% equity and 50% fixed-income investments. As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, the majority of the US Retiree Medical Plan assets were invested in exchange-traded equity securities and were measured at fair value using Level 1 inputs. The remaining US Retiree Medical Plan assets were invested in fixed-income investments and were measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs.
As of December 28, 2024, the estimated benefit payments for this plan over the next 10 years are as follows:
(In Millions)		2025		2026		2027		2028		2029		2030-2034
Postretirement medical benefits		$	37 			$	45 			$	45 			$	44 			$	44 			$	209 	
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
91
 
Table of Contents

Pension Benefit Plans
We provide defined-benefit pension plans in certain countries, most significantly Ireland, the US, Germany, and Israel. The majority of the plans' benefits have been frozen.
Benefit Obligation and Plan Assets for Pension Benefit Plans
The vested benefit obligation for a defined-benefit pension plan is the actuarial present value of the vested benefits to which the employee is currently entitled based on the employee's expected date of separation or retirement.
Years Ended (In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Changes in projected benefit obligation:				
Beginning projected benefit obligation		$	2,825 			$	2,705 	
Service cost		33 			36 	
Interest cost		122 			127 	
Actuarial (gain) loss		(40)			57 	
Currency exchange rate changes		(107)			38 	
Plan settlements		(143)			(103)	
Other		(44)			(35)	
Ending projected benefit obligation1
2,646 			2,825 	
Changes in fair value of plan assets:				
Beginning fair value of plan assets		2,212 			2,130 	
Actual return on plan assets		121 			151 	
Currency exchange rate changes		(74)			34 	
Plan settlements		(143)			(103)	
Other		26 			— 	
Ending fair value of plan assets2
2,142 			2,212 	
Net unfunded status		$	504 			$	613 	
Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets				
Other long-term assets		$	135 			$	62 	
Other long-term liabilities		$	639 			$	675 	
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income), before tax3
$	337 			$	410 	
Accumulated benefit obligation		$	2,509 			$	2,706 	
 
1    The projected benefit obligation was approximately 30% in the US and 70% outside of the US as of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023.
2    The fair value of plan assets was approximately 40% in the US and 60% outside of the US as of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023.
3    The accumulated other comprehensive loss (income), before tax, was approximately 80% in the US and 20% outside of the US as of December 28, 2024 (approximately 70% in the US and 30% outside of the US as of December 30, 2023).
Changes in actuarial gains and losses in the projected benefit obligation are generally driven by discount rate movement. We use the corridor approach to amortize actuarial gains and losses. Under this approach, net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the larger of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active plan participants.
As of December 28, 2024, the accumulated benefit obligations were $763 million and $1.7 billion for the US plan and non-US plans, respectively. As of December 30, 2023, the accumulated benefit obligations were $849 million and $1.9 billion for the US plan and non-US plans, respectively. As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, only non-US plans had projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.

 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
92
 
Table of Contents

(In Millions)
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets				
Accumulated benefit obligation		$	850 			$	1,857 	
Plan assets		$	348 			$	1,301 	
Plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets				
Projected benefit obligation		$	987 			$	1,976 	
Plan assets		$	348 			$	1,301 	
 
Assumptions for Pension Benefit Plans
Years Ended
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023
Weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations				
Discount rate		4.6 	%		4.5 	%
Rate of compensation increase		3.4 	%		3.3 	%
 
Years Ended
2024		2023		2022
Weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine costs						
Discount rate		4.5 	%		4.9 	%		2.2 	%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets		5.1 	%		5.0 	%		3.2 	%
Rate of compensation increase		3.3 	%		3.7 	%		3.2 	%
 
We establish the discount rate for each pension plan by analyzing current market long-term bond rates and matching the bond maturity with the average duration of the pension liabilities.
We establish the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset class.
Funding
Our practice is to fund the various pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet the minimum requirements of applicable local laws and regulations. On a worldwide basis, our pension and retiree medical plans were 86% funded as of December 28, 2024. Funded status is not indicative of our ability to pay ongoing pension benefits or of our obligation to fund retirement trusts.
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
The net periodic benefit cost for pension and US retiree medical benefits was $69 million in 2024 ($107 million in 2023 and $139 million in 2022).
Pension Plan Assets 
December 28, 2024
Fair Value Measured at Reporting Date Using		
(In Millions)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Equity securities		$	— 			$	344 			$	— 			$	344 	
Fixed income		— 			142 			24 			166 	
Assets measured by fair value hierarchy		$	— 			$	486 			$	24 			$	510 	
Assets measured at net asset value								1,618 	
Cash and cash equivalents								14 	
Total pension plan assets at fair value								$	2,142 	
 
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
93
 
Table of Contents


December 30, 2023
Fair Value Measured at Reporting Date Using		
(In Millions)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Equity securities		$	— 			$	383 			$	— 			$	383 	
Fixed income		— 			139 			25 			164 	
Assets measured by fair value hierarchy		$	— 			$	522 			$	25 			$	547 	
Assets measured at net asset value								1,648 	
Cash and cash equivalents								17 	
Total pension plan assets at fair value								$	2,212 	
 
US Plan Assets
The investment strategy for US Pension Plan assets is to manage the funded status volatility, taking into consideration the investment horizon and expected volatility to help enable sufficient assets to be available to pay pension benefits as they come due. The allocation to each asset class will fluctuate with market conditions, such as volatility and liquidity concerns, and will typically be rebalanced when outside the target ranges, which are 91% fixed income and 9% equity investments. During 2024 and 2023, the US Pension Plan assets were invested in collective investment trust funds, which are measured at net asset value.
Non-US Plan Assets
The investments of the non-US plans are managed by insurance companies, pension funds, or third-party trustees, consistent with regulations or market practice of the country where the assets are invested. The investment manager makes investment decisions within the guidelines set by Intel or local regulations. Investments managed by qualified insurance companies or pension funds under standard contracts follow local regulations, and we are not actively involved in their investment strategies. For the assets that we have the discretion to set investment guidelines, the assets are invested in developed country equity investments and fixed-income investments, either through index funds or direct investment. In general, the investment strategy is designed to accumulate a diversified portfolio among markets, asset classes, or individual securities to reduce market risk and to help enable sufficient pension assets to be available to pay benefits as they come due. The equity investments in the non-US plan assets are invested in a diversified mix of equities of developed countries, including the US, and emerging markets throughout the world. We have control over the investment strategy related to the majority of the assets measured at net asset value, which are invested in hedge funds, bond index funds, and equity index funds. The target allocation of the non-US plan assets that we have control over was approximately 50% fixed income, 35% equity, and 15% hedge fund investments in 2024.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments for Pension Benefit Plans
As of December 28, 2024, estimated benefit payments over the next 10 years are as follows:
(In Millions)
2025		2026		2027		2028		2029		2030-2034
Pension benefits		$	145 			$	86 			$	95 			$	97 			$	106 			$	623 	
 
Note 18 :	Employee Equity Incentive Plans
 
Our equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term programs intended to attract and retain talented employees and align stockholder and employee interests. Our plans include our 2006 Plan and our 2006 ESPP.
Under the 2006 Plan, 1.1 billion shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance as equity awards to employees and non-employee directors through June 2026. As of December 28, 2024, 171 million shares of common stock remained available for future grants.
Under the 2006 Plan, we may grant RSUs and stock options. We grant RSUs with a service condition as well as RSUs with a market condition, performance condition, and a service condition, which we call PSUs. PSUs are granted to a group of senior officers and employees. For PSUs granted in 2024 and 2023, the number of shares of our common stock to be received at vesting at the end of the three-year performance period will range from 0% to 200% of the target grant amount. The PSU payout will be determined based on our performance (i) relative to annual targets for each year in the performance period with respect to a revenue growth metric, weighted 60%, and a cash flow from operations metric, weighted 40%, which results are then averaged at the end of the three-year performance period; and (ii) as may be adjusted by two equally weighted modifiers: the TSR of our common stock measured against the benchmark TSR of above median of the S&P 500 Index over a three-year period and revenue CAGR for the three-year performance period. TSR is a measure of stock price appreciation plus any dividends paid in this performance period. For 2024 PSUs, overall payout will be capped at the target grant amount if our absolute TSR is negative; additionally, the combined modifiers applied to the payout are capped at +/-25%. As of December 28, 2024, 10 million PSUs were outstanding. PSUs vest three years and one month following the start of the performance period. Other RSU awards and option awards generally vest over four years from the grant date.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
94
 
Table of Contents

Share-Based Compensation
Share-based compensation recognized in 2024 was $3.4 billion ($3.2 billion in 2023 and $3.1 billion in 2022). During 2024, the actual tax benefit that we realized for the tax deduction from share-based awards totaled $684 million ($571 million in 2023 and $478 million in 2022). We realized a related tax expense of $139 million in 2024 for the share-based awards as a result of the shortfall between the tax deduction being less than the associated deferred tax asset for the awards.
We estimate the fair value of RSUs and PSUs with a service condition or performance condition using the value of our common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our shares of common stock prior to vesting. We estimate the fair value of PSUs with a market condition using a Monte Carlo simulation model as of the date of grant using historical volatility. 
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units
Weighted average assumptions used in estimating grant values were as follows:
Years Ended
Dec 28, 2024		Dec 30, 2023		Dec 31, 2022
Estimated values		$	39.51 			$	28.92 			$	41.12 	
Risk-free interest rate		4.7 	%		4.7 	%		2.2 	%
Dividend yield		1.2 	%		1.6 	%		3.4 	%
Volatility		36 	%		36 	%		40 	%
 
Summary of activities:
Number of Stock Units Outstanding (In Millions)
Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value
Balance as of December 30, 2023		172.9 			$	37.05 	
Granted		64.5 			39.51 	
Vested		(83.8)			40.33 	
Forfeited		(36.2)			35.54 	
Balance as of December 28, 2024		117.4 			$	36.52 	
Expected to vest	104.3 			$	36.70 	
 
The aggregate fair value of awards that vested in 2024 was $2.4 billion ($2.2 billion in 2023 and $2.0 billion in 2022), which represents the market value of our common stock on the date that the RSUs vested. The grant-date fair value of awards that vested in 2024 was $3.4 billion ($2.7 billion in 2023 and $2.5 billion in 2022). The number of RSUs vested includes shares of common stock that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. RSUs that are expected to vest are net of estimated future forfeitures.
As of December 28, 2024, unrecognized compensation costs related to RSUs granted under our equity incentive plans were $2.7 billion. We expect to recognize those costs over a weighted average period of 1.1 years.
Stock Purchase Plan
The 2006 ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the value of our common stock on specific dates. Under the 2006 ESPP, 523 million shares of common stock are authorized for issuance through August 2026. As of December 28, 2024, 118 million shares of common stock remained available for issuance.
Employees purchased 39 million shares of common stock in 2024 for $972 million under the 2006 ESPP (43 million shares of common stock for $1.0 billion in 2023 and 27 million shares of common stock for $931 million in 2022). As of December 28, 2024, unrecognized share-based compensation costs related to rights to acquire shares of common stock under the 2006 ESPP totaled $63 million. We expect to recognize those costs over a period of approximately two months.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
95
 
Table of Contents

Note 19 :	Commitments and Contingencies
 
Leases
We recognized operating leased assets in other long-term assets of $457 million ($505 million in 2023) and corresponding accrued liabilities of $181 million ($142 million in 2023), and other long-term liabilities of $279 million as of December 28, 2024 ($289 million in 2023). Our operating leases have remaining terms of 1 to 12 years and may include options to extend the leases for up to 37 years. The weighted average remaining lease term was 6.5 years, and the weighted average discount rate was 4.9% as of December 28, 2024 for our operating leases.
Operating lease expense was $248 million in 2024 ($407 million in 2023 and $729 million in 2022), including $98 million in variable lease expense in 2024 ($213 million in 2023 and $551 million in 2022).
We recognized finance leased assets in property, plant, and equipment of $470 million as of December 28, 2024 ($619 million as of December 30, 2023) of which the majority is related to a prepaid finance lease for supplier capacity. This lease will commence upon start of supplier production and has a term of 6 years.
We also incurred non-cash impairment charges of $83 million on certain operating leased assets as a direct result of the 2024 Restructuring Plan (see "Note 7: Restructuring and Other Charges" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). These charges were included within restructuring and other in the third quarter of 2024.
Discounted and undiscounted lease payments under non-cancelable leases as of December 28, 2024, were as follows:
(In Millions)		2025		2026		2027		2028		2029		 Thereafter		Total
Operating lease payments		$	112 			$	74 			$	59 			$	46 			$	42 			$	119 			$	452 	
Finance lease payments		$	107 			$	106 			$	16 			$	6 			$	— 			$	— 			$	235 	
Present value of lease payments														$	614 	
 
Commitments
Commitments for capital expenditures totaled $20.0 billion as of December 28, 2024 ($27.5 billion as of December 30, 2023), a majority of which will be due within the next 12 months. Other purchase obligations and commitments totaled approximately $7.0 billion as of December 28, 2024 (approximately $8.3 billion as of December 30, 2023).
Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under supply agreements and various types of licenses and agreements to purchase goods or services. Contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services relate to agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Other purchase obligations reflect the non-cancelable portion or the minimum cancellation fee under the agreement.
Other purchase commitments also include our unrecognized commitment to fund our respective share of the total construction costs of Arizona SCIP in connection with the definitive agreement entered into with Brookfield during 2022. Our remaining unfunded contribution was $10.5 billion as of December 28, 2024.
Legal Proceedings
We are regularly party to various ongoing claims, litigation, and other proceedings, including those noted in this section. As of December 28, 2024, we have accrued a charge of $1.0 billion related to litigation involving VLSI and a charge of $401 million related to an EC-imposed fine, both as described below. Excluding the VLSI claims described below, management at present believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or overall trends; however, legal proceedings and related government investigations are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings, excessive verdicts, or other events could occur. Unfavorable resolutions could include substantial monetary damages, fines, or penalties. Certain of these outstanding matters include speculative, substantial, or indeterminate monetary awards. In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways, precluding particular business practices, or requiring other remedies. An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. We might also conclude that settling one or more such matters is in the best interests of our stockholders, employees, and customers, and any such settlement could include substantial payments. Except as specifically described below, we have not concluded that settlement of any of the legal proceedings noted in this section is appropriate at this time.
In addition, in the second quarter of 2024, we accrued a charge of $780 million within restructuring and other related to three separate confidential settlement agreements with R2, Third Point, and TRGP (see R2 Semiconductor Patent Litigation below). The remaining unpaid liability was $655 million as of December 28, 2024.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
96
 
Table of Contents

European Commission Competition Matter
In 2009, the EC found that we had used unfair business practices to persuade customers to buy microprocessors in violation of Article 82 of the EC Treaty (later renumbered Article 102) and Article 54 of the European Economic Area Agreement. In general, the EC found that we violated Article 82 by offering alleged “conditional rebates and payments” that required customers to purchase all or most of their x86 microprocessors from us and by making alleged “payments to prevent sales of specific rival products.” The EC ordered us to end the alleged infringement referred to in its decision and imposed a €1.1 billion fine, which we paid in the third quarter of 2009.
We appealed the EC decision to the European Court of Justice in 2014, after the General Court (then called the Court of First Instance) rejected our appeal of the EC decision in its entirety. In September 2017, the Court of Justice sent the case back to the General Court to examine whether the rebates at issue were capable of restricting competition. In January 2022, the General Court annulled the EC's 2009 findings against us regarding rebates, as well as the €1.1 billion fine imposed on Intel, which was returned to us in February 2022. The General Court's January 2022 decision did not annul the EC's 2009 finding that we made payments to prevent sales of specific rival products.
In April 2022, the EC appealed the General Court's findings regarding rebates to the Court of Justice. In October 2024, the Court of Justice dismissed the EC's appeal, upholding the judgment of the General Court.
In September 2023, the EC imposed a €376 million ($401 million) fine against us based on its 2009 finding that we made payments to prevent sales of specific rival products. We have appealed the EC's decision. We have accrued a charge for the fine and are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses in excess of this amount given the procedural posture and the nature of these proceedings.
In a related matter, in April 2022, we filed applications with the General Court seeking an order requiring the EC to pay us approximately €593 million ($647 million) in default interest on the original €1.1 billion ($1.2 billion) fine that was held by the EC for 12 years. In November 2024, the EC paid us approximately €516 million ($560 million) in settlement of the applications.
Litigation Related to Security Vulnerabilities
In June 2017, a Google research team notified Intel and other companies that it had identified security vulnerabilities, the first variants of which are now commonly referred to as “Spectre” and “Meltdown,” that affect many types of microprocessors, including our products. As is standard when findings like these are presented, we worked together with other companies in the industry to verify the research and develop and validate software and firmware updates for impacted technologies. In January 2018, information on the security vulnerabilities was publicly reported, before software and firmware updates to address the vulnerabilities were made widely available.
Consumer class action lawsuits against us were pending in the US and Canada. The plaintiffs, who purport to represent various classes of purchasers of our products, generally claim to have been harmed by our actions and/or omissions in connection with Spectre, Meltdown, and other variants of this class of security vulnerabilities that have been identified since 2018, and assert a variety of common law and statutory claims seeking monetary damages and equitable relief. In the US, class action suits filed in various jurisdictions between 2018 and 2021 were consolidated for all pretrial proceedings in the US District Court for the District of Oregon, which entered final judgment in favor of Intel in July 2022 based on plaintiffs' failure to plead a viable claim. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district court's judgment in November 2023, ending the litigation. In November 2023, new plaintiffs filed a consumer class action complaint in the US District Court for the Northern District of California with respect to a further vulnerability variant disclosed in August 2023 and commonly referred to as “Downfall.” In August 2024, the district court dismissed plaintiffs' complaint for failure to plead a viable claim. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in September 2024, which we moved to dismiss in October 2024. In Canada, an initial status conference has not yet been scheduled in one case relating to Spectre and Meltdown pending in the Superior Court of Justice of Ontario, and a stay of a second case pending in the Superior Court of Justice of Quebec is in effect. Additional lawsuits and claims may be asserted seeking monetary damages or other related relief. Given the procedural posture and the nature of these cases, including that the pending proceedings are in the early stages, that alleged damages have not been specified, that uncertainty exists as to the likelihood of a class or classes being certified or the ultimate size of any class or classes if certified, and that there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses, if any, that might arise from these matters.
Litigation Related to Segment Reporting and Internal Foundry Model
A securities class action lawsuit was filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California in May 2024 against us and certain officers following the modification of our segment reporting in the first quarter of 2024 to align to our new internal foundry operating model. In August 2024 the court ordered the case consolidated with a second, similar lawsuit, and in October 2024 plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated complaint generally alleging that defendants violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements about the growth and prospects of the foundry business and seeking monetary damages on behalf of all persons and entities that purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock or purchased call options or sold put options on our common stock from January 25, 2024 through August 1, 2024. We filed a motion to dismiss the amended consolidated complaint in December 2024. Given the procedural posture and the nature of the case, including that it is in the early stages, that alleged damages have not been specified, that uncertainty exists as to the likelihood of a class being certified or the ultimate size of any class if certified, and that there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses, if any, that might arise from the matter.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
97
 
Table of Contents

Several stockholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in the Delaware state and federal courts since the filing of the securities class action lawsuit alleging that our directors and certain officers breached their fiduciary duties and violated the federal securities laws by making or allowing the statements that are challenged in the securities class action lawsuit. A similar derivative lawsuit was filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California in December 2024, and transferred to the Delaware federal court in January 2025. In each derivative lawsuit, the plaintiff seeks to recover damages from the defendants on behalf of Intel. By stipulation of the parties, the Delaware state and federal courts have ordered the cases before them stayed pending certain developments in the securities class action lawsuit.
Litigation Related to Patent and IP Claims
We have had IP infringement lawsuits filed against us, including but not limited to those discussed below. Most involve claims that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe others' IP rights. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial fines and penalties, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. As a result, we may have to change our business practices, and develop non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenue for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, certain agreements with our customers require us to indemnify them against certain IP infringement claims, which can increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages, accept product returns, or supply our customers with non-infringing products if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. In addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely affect our business.
VLSI Technology LLC v. Intel
In October 2017, VLSI Technology LLC (VLSI) filed a complaint against us in the US District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that various Intel FPGA and processor products infringe eight patents VLSI acquired from NXP Semiconductors, N.V. (NXP). VLSI sought damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. Intel prevailed on all eight patents and the court entered final judgment in April 2024. VLSI appealed the Court's judgment of non-infringement as to one of the eight patents. In April 2019, VLSI filed three infringement suits against us in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas accusing various of our processors of infringement of eight additional patents it had acquired from NXP:
▪The first Texas case went to trial in February 2021, and the jury awarded VLSI $1.5 billion for literal infringement of one patent and $675 million for infringement of another patent under the doctrine of equivalents. In April 2022, the court entered final judgment, awarding VLSI $2.2 billion in damages and approximately $162 million in pre-judgment and post-judgment interest. We appealed the judgment to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, including the court's rejection of Intel's claim to have a license from Fortress Investment Group's acquisition of Finjan. The Federal Circuit Court heard oral argument in October 2023. In December 2023, the Federal Circuit reversed the finding of infringement as to the patent for which VLSI was awarded $675 million. The Federal Circuit affirmed the finding of infringement as to the patent for which VLSI had been awarded $1.5 billion, but vacated the damages award and sent the case back to the trial court for further damages proceedings on that patent. The Federal Circuit also ruled that Intel can advance the defense that it is licensed to VLSI's patents. In December 2021 and January 2022 the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) instituted Inter Partes Reviews (IPR) on the claims found to have been infringed in the first Texas case, and in May and June 2023 found all of those claims unpatentable; VLSI has appealed the PTAB's decisions. In April 2024, Intel moved to add the defense that it is licensed to VLSI's patents. The motion remains pending.
▪The second Texas case went to trial in April 2021, and the jury found that we do not infringe the asserted patents. VLSI had sought approximately $3.0 billion for alleged infringement, plus enhanced damages for willful infringement. In September 2024, the court denied VLSI's motion for a new trial. Other post-trial motions remain pending, and the court has not yet entered final judgment.
▪The third Texas case went to trial in November 2022, with VLSI asserting one remaining patent. The jury found the patent valid and infringed, and awarded VLSI approximately $949 million in damages, plus interest and a running royalty. The court has not yet entered final judgment. In February 2023, we filed motions for a new trial and for judgment as a matter of law notwithstanding the verdict on various grounds. Further appeals are possible. In April 2024, Intel moved to add the defense that it is licensed to VLSI's patents, and the court granted Intel's motion that same month. Trial on the license defense has been set for May 2025.
In May 2019, VLSI filed a case in Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court against Intel, Intel (China) Co., Ltd., Intel Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., and Intel Products (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. VLSI asserted one patent against certain Intel Core processors. Defendants filed an invalidation petition in October 2019 with the China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA) which held a hearing in September 2021. The Shenzhen court held trial proceedings in July 2021 and September 2023. VLSI sought an injunction as well as RMB 1.3 million in costs and expenses, but no damages. In September 2023, the CNIPA invalidated every claim of the asserted patent. In November 2023, the trial court dismissed VLSI's case.
In May 2019, VLSI filed a case in Shanghai Intellectual Property Court against Intel (China) Co., Ltd., Intel Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., and Intel Products (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. asserting one patent against certain Intel core processors. The court held a trial hearing in December 2020, where VLSI requested expenses (RMB 300 thousand) and an injunction. In December 2022, we filed a petition to invalidate the patent at issue. In February 2024, the patent was found not invalid, and Intel appealed the decision in May 2024. The appeal remains pending. The court held a second trial hearing in May 2022, and in October 2023, issued a decision finding no infringement and dismissing all claims. In November 2023, VLSI appealed the finding of non-infringement to the Supreme People's Court. The Supreme People's Court held an evidentiary hearing in October 2024, and a trial in November 2024.
 intel-logo-footer.jpg
Financial Statements	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
98
 
Table of Contents

In July 2024, Intel filed suit against VLSI in US District Court for the District of Delaware requesting the court find Intel is licensed to VLSI's patents. In September 2024, VLSI filed motions requesting that Intel's complaint be dismissed, transferred, or stayed.
As of December 28, 2024, we have accrued a charge of approximately $1.0 billion related to the VLSI litigation. While we dispute VLSI's claims and intend to vigorously defend against them, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of losses in excess of recorded amounts given recent developments and future proceedings.
R2 Semiconductor Patent Litigation
In November 2022, R2 Semiconductor, Inc. (R2) filed a lawsuit in the High Court of Justice in the UK against Intel Corporation (UK) Limited and Intel Corporation, and a lawsuit in the Dusseldorf Regional Court in Germany against Intel Deutschland GmbH and certain Intel customers. R2 asserts one European patent is infringed by Intel's Ice Lake, Tiger Lake, Alder Lake, and Ice Lake Server (Xeon) processors (the accused products), and customer servers and laptops that contain those processors. In July 2024, the UK High Court of Justice found the UK part of R2's European patent invalid. In February 2024, the Dusseldorf court found Intel's processors infringe and issued an injunction and recall order against Intel and its customers. In March 2024, R2 asserted the same patent against Fujitsu and Amazon Web Services in Dusseldorf Regional Court, accusing Ice Lake and Sapphire Rapids in the AWS suit; and Tiger Lake, Ice Lake, Alder Lake, Raptor Lake, and Sapphire Rapids in the Fujitsu suit. R2 seeks an injunction, recall, and damages. Intel is indemnifying and defending its customers. In March 2024, Intel Corporation Italia S.P.A. filed an action in the Tribunale di Milano seeking an order that Intel processors do not infringe R2's patent. In May 2024, R2 filed suit in Milan against Intel Corporation Italia S.P.A. and Italian affiliates of customers Dell, HP, and HPE, accusing Intel's Ice Lake (server and client), Tiger Lake, Alder Lake, and Raptor Lake processors of infringing its patent, and requesting that its suit be consolidated with Intel Corporation Italia S.P.A.'s suit. R2 is requesting an injunction and damages. In April 2024, R2 filed an action against Intel and its customers Dell, HP, and HPE for patent infringement before the Tribunal Judiciaire of Paris. R2 sought an injunction. Intel and its customers filed a nullity action against the patent in France.
In light of the potential disruption to Intel's and its customers' businesses in Europe were the Dusseldorf Regional Court's injunction and recall order to be enforced before a decision by the appeals court was expected, the significant delay expected before a decision by the appeals court, and the additional ongoing and potential litigation across other jurisdictions and with respect to other Intel processors and customers, in August 2024 Intel entered into three separate confidential agreements with R2, Third Point (the controlling shareholder), and TRGP Capital (a third-party organization funding the lawsuits) to resolve the injunction enforcement risk and related pending litigation, and provide for broad-based litigation peace with these entities, which included rights to other technology and services to Intel. Across the three agreements, Intel expects to pay an aggregate amount of $780 million.
Business Interruption Insurance Proceeds
We received $484 million of insurance proceeds, primarily in the fourth quarter of 2022, to compensate for business interruption and property damage from a temporary electrical breakdown that occurred at one of our facilities in 2020. We recognized these receipts as a reduction of cost of sales.
